GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO YESTERDAY THE JULY
21ST MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
TO THE FLAG THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TO
THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION WITH LIBERTY
AND JUSTICE FOR ALL AS WE ENTER
A NEW DIMENSION IN TIME AND
SPACE
WHAT OUR WHAT OUR CLARK D
CALL THE ROLE OF COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH HERE OUR HARRISON ASSET
COUNCILOR WATSON HERE ABSENT
TATSUO DENHA HERE CUSTOMER
GHAZI EGGLAND HERE MAYOR TAYLOR
HERE COMES HERE COMES FOR
ECKMANN HERE THAT'S HER BRIGS
UPSET CUSTOMER CARNEL HERE WE
HAVE A QUORUM HERE THE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNCIL CORNELL SECOND
MY COUNCIL MEMBER ECKMANN
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ON
FAVOR OPPOSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
YOU KNOW, MAYOR, WE DO HAVE ONE
INTRODUCTION TODAY FROM OUR
INDOMITABLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
THREE MARK THOMPSON.
MISS THOMPSON, YOU HAVE THE
COMMENT.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING, EVERYBODY.
I JUST HAVE TO BRIEF UPDATE FOR
YOU TONIGHT.
NO SLIDES.
SO I FIRST WANTED TO GIVE YOU
AN UPDATE ON THE TIMELINE
OF THE DENHA DEVELOPMENT PLAN
SO THE TIMELINE CONTINUES TO
EVOLVE.
HOWEVER, WHERE WE STAND RIGHT
NOW, THE EARLIEST WE WOULD HAVE
THE PLAN TO COUNCIL FOR
CONSIDERATION WOULD BE JANUARY.
SO WITH THAT TIMELINE IN MIND
OR WITH THAT DATE IN MIND,
COUNCIL'S FIRST ACTION WOULD BE
IN MID-SEPTEMBER WHEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND THE FIRST
READING OF THE ORDINANCE CHANGE
WOULD BE SET.
>> THERE IS THEN A MINIMUM OF A
20 DAY PERIOD BETWEEN THE
NOTICE OF THAT PUBLIC HEARING
AND WHEN THAT PUBLIC HEARING
CAN TAKE PLACE.
SO THAT WOULD BRING US
POTENTIALLY TO YOUR
OCTOBER 20TH COUNCIL MEETING.
WE THEN HAVE A SIXTY DAY
PERIOD, A MINIMUM OF SIXTY DAYS
BETWEEN THAT PUBLIC HEARING AND
WHEN COUNCIL CAN ACTUALLY VOTE
ON THE PLAN AND THAT WOULD
BRING US TO YOUR FIRST MEETING
IN JANUARY.
SO THERE ARE A LOT OF MOVING
PARTS.
THINGS COULD CHANGE BUT FROM
WHERE WE STAND TODAY THAT IS
WHAT WE ARE LOOKING AT FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC.
THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN DOES HAVE
A PAGE ON THE CITY'S PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT PLATFORM ENGAGED ALL
OF THE MATERIALS THAT HAVE BEEN
PRESENTED TO THE BOARD AND TO
THIS COUNCIL LIVE ON THAT PAGE
.
IF THERE ARE MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
OR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO
WOULD LIKE TO LEARN MORE ABOUT
THE PLAN, PLEASE FEEL FREE TO
REACH OUT TO ME.
I'M HAPPY TO MEET WITH ANYBODY
WHO HAS INTEREST IN DISCUSSING
THE PLAN OR HAS QUESTIONS.
>> MY ONLY OTHER UPDATE IS TO
LET YOU ALL KNOW THAT THE DDA
HAS MOVED TO THE CAPITAL MARKET
AND SHOPS SO OUR OFFICE IS NOW
LOCATED IN THE LUECK BUILDING.
WE ARE ON THE SECOND FLOOR
ABOVE GROUND.
ALL OF OUR PUBLIC MEETINGS ARE
NOW TAKING PLACE HERE AT CITY
HALL SO THE BOARD ACTUALLY NOW
MEETS IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS THE
FIRST WEDNESDAY OF THE MONTH
FROM NOON TO TWO OUR BOARD WORK
SESSIONS TAKE PLACE IN THE
BASEMENT CONFERENCE ROOM HERE
AT CITY HALL.
ALL OF OUR MEETINGS ARE POSTED
ON THE WEBSITE AS WELL AS ON
REGISTAR.
SO WITH THAT IF YOU FIND
YOURSELF OUT IN KOREATOWN, I
HOPE YOU'LL STOP IN OUR OFFICE,
SAY HELLO AND CHECK OUT OUR NEW
SPACE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVED TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
ONES NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK BECAUSE WE HAVE AN EXCESS
OF THIRTY PERSONS SIGNED UP
TODAY SPEAKERS IN THIS MEETING
WE'LL HAVE TWO MINUTES IN WHICH
TO SPEAK, TWO MINUTES IN WHICH
TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME CLOCK THAT WAS THAT
IS PART OF OUR COUNCIL RULES.
THE CLERK HAS MADE EVERY EFFORT
TO COMMUNICATE THIS TO PERSONS
WHO HAVE SIGNED UP FOLKS WHO
HAVE TWO MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
WE WILL RUN THROUGH WITHOUT
DOUBT THE FIRST TWENTY THREE
SPEAKERS
PRIOR TO THE START
OF THE WELL THE BUSINESS
MEETING HAS STARTED PRIOR TO
THE DISCUSSION OF COUNCIL IF
THE FIRST TWENTY THREE SPEAKERS
ARE COMPLETED PRIOR TO 45
MINUTES THEN WE WILL CONTINUE
ON WITH THE Q 24 25, 26 ETC. IN
THE EVENT WE ARE UNABLE TO HEAR
YOU DURING THIS FIRST PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD THERE WILL BE
PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW TIME
WHICH WILL OCCUR AFTER THE SET
OF VOTES SCHEDULED FOR THIS
MEETING AND EVEN WHETHER YOU
ARE IN HOUSE OR WHETHER YOU'RE
ON LINE, PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TO TO YOUR
TIME UNDER THESE UNDER THESE
NOVEL CIRCUMSTANCES THE TIME
CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN YOU
HAVE THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING
OR THE CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU
WHEN YOU HAVE THIRTY SECONDS
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME'S
EXPIRED IN EACH CASE WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS ADAM
GOODMAN
.
GOOD EVENING.
TONIGHT I WANT TO QUICKLY TELL
YOU A TALE OF TWO CITIES
MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA AND
PORTLAND, OREGON.
MANY FOLKS KNOW MINNEAPOLIS WAS
THE FIRST MAJOR CITY IN THE US
TO LEGALIZE MULTIUNIT HOMES IN
WHAT HAD PREVIOUSLY BEEN
RESERVED FOR EXCLUSIVELY A
SINGLE UNIT HOMES.
BUT AFTER THAT VERY FEW
OF THESE MULTIPLEXES ACTUALLY
GOT BUILT.
THE REASONS ARE NO MYSTERY.
MINNEAPOLIS ENACTED A HARD CAP
OF THREE UNITS AND THEY ALSO
REQUIRED THAT MULTIPLE UNIT
STRUCTURES FIT INTO EXACTLY THE
SAME BUILDING AS THREE SINGLE
UNIT HOMES THANKS TO THESE AND
OTHER RESTRICTIONS, IT WAS NOT
FEASIBLE TO BUILD THESE
MULTIPLE UNIT BUILDINGS.
MINNEAPOLIS LEGALIZED HOUSING
IN THEORY BUT NOT IN PRACTICE.
ONLY A COUPLE OF YEARS LATER
PORTLAND ALSO LEGALIZED
MULTIUNIT HOMES THROUGHOUT THE
CITY BUT THEY DID IT
DIFFERENTLY.
PORTLAND LEGALIZED FOURPLEX
SAYS BY WRIGHT IN SIX PLEXUS IF
HALF THE UNITS WERE AFFORDABLE
THEY ALSO ALLOWED INCREMENTALLY
MORE FLOOR AREAS.
THE UNIT COUNT INCREASES SO
THESE BOXES CAN BE A BIT LARGER
THAN SINGLE FAMILY HOMES THOUGH
STILL WITHIN REASON FOR
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT.
AND IN PORTLAND IT'S WORKING
ACCORDING TO A RECENT REPORT
FROM THE CITY, THEY'RE ISSUING
TWICE AS MANY PERMITS FOR THESE
MIDDLE HOUSING HOMES AS THEY
ARE FOR SINGLE UNIT HOMES.
THEY ALSO HAVE GREAT DATA
SHOWING THESE NEW HOME TYPES
ARE HAVING A VERY POSITIVE
EFFECT ON AFFORDABILITY IN
PORTLAND'S NEIGHBORHOODS.
SO TONIGHT I'M HERE TO ASK YOU
TO COMMIT TO A VISION
OF RESIDENTIAL INFILL IN OUR
CITY INCLUDING AN R ONE OUR TWO
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT LEGALIZES
HOUSING IN PRACTICE NOT JUST IN
THEORY.
HOWEVER, THE DC THREE TONIGHT
WOULD DO THE OPPOSITE.
IT WOULD BE A BIG STEP TOWARDS
MINNEAPOLIS FAILED APPROACH.
THE MOST IMMEDIATE REASON I'M
ASKING YOU TO VOTE NO IS
BECAUSE IT COMMITS TO A THREE
HEART THREE UNIT JUST LIKE
MINNEAPOLIS.
BUT OTHER DETAILS WILL BE JUST
AS IMPORTANT IN THE COMING
WEEKS AND MONTHS.
SO I'M ALSO URGING YOU TO BE
VIGILANT ON THOSE SO WE DON'T
FORECLOSE ON A FUTURE FOR OUR
CITY WHERE EVERYONE HAS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO LIVE IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD OF THEIR CHOICE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ANDREA BAR
.
HELLO.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO ADDRESS THE CITY COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS ANDREA BAER.
I LIVE IT FOR OWNSELF A DENHA
BOULEVARD ON THE WEST SIDE I WE
HAVE MANY MULTIFAMILY DWELLINGS
IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD AND I FULLY
SUPPORT INCREASING THE SUPPLY
OF AFFORDABLE AND QUALITY
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR.
>> HOWEVER, I SEE ISSUES THAT I
DO NOT BELIEVE HAVE BEEN
ADDRESSED SUFFICIENTLY.
I HAVE FOUR POINTS REGARDING
THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
NUMBER ONE AND I'LL FRAME THESE
IN QUESTIONS.
I KNOW YOU'RE NOT GOING TO
ANSWER THEM FOR ME TONIGHT.
NO ONE HAVE AND OR WILL STREET
STUDIES BE COMPLETED AS PART
OF DEFINING TRANSITION ZONES
PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR THREE
FOUR STORY MULTIUNIT BUILDINGS
COMMERCIAL ETC. THAT PARKING IS
AMBIGUOUS IN THE PLAN.
THE CITY OBVIOUSLY NO LONGER
REQUIRES PARKING MINIMUMS AND
THE ARGUMENT THAT BANKS WILL
NOT FUND DEVELOPMENTS WITHOUT
PARKING IS ONLY A PARTIAL
RESPONSE IN SEVERAL
NEIGHBORHOODS INCLUDING THE ONE
I LIVE IN WITH MANY DUPLEXES
AND MINIMAL DRIVEWAYS AGAIN
WHICH I AM VERY HAPPY WITH.
THERE IS ALREADY A HEAVY AND
YET UNDERSTANDABLE RELIANCE ON
STREET PARKING AND I'M
WONDERING THE EXTENT TO WHICH
THE LEADERS HAVE HAD STREET
STUDIES DONE OR JUST GONE AND
TAKEN A LOOK AT AN AVERAGE DAY
BECAUSE A NEW FOUR STORY
BUILDING WITH THAT MIGHT HAVE
UP EIGHT UNITS THAT COULD BE AS
MANY AS SIX ADDITIONAL CARS.
I AGREE WITH THE VISION FOR
LESS FOR FEWER CARS BUT THERE
IS THE REALITY THE SECOND POINT
IS TO INFRASTRUCTURE AND HERE I
WILL START AND RAISE QUESTIONS
ON THE POINT OF COSTING AND IS
THE INFRASTRUCTURE GOING TO BE
COSTED AFTER THE LAND USE PLAN
IS DEVELOPED BECAUSE FRANKLY I
FEEL LIKE THAT IT'S A WHOLE
PART THAT'S BEING MISSED RIGHT
NOW IS HOW WILL THE WATER,
SANITATION, ET CETERA BE
ADDRESSED?
>> THANK YOU.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CHINTU
.
THANK YOU EVERYONE.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO ADDRESS THE COUNCIL.
I'M HERE TO SPEAK AS A STUDENT
AGAINST DC THREE I I I BELIEVE
THAT THE THIS THIS RESOLUTION
RICED AS A RESPONSE TO THE
CONCERNS, THE SURGING CONCERNS
WE HEARD IN THE PAST MONTH.
BUT AS I HAD THE NO NOT
NEIGHBORHOOD NETWORK WEBSITE I
NOTED THERE INTENTION IS TO TRY
TO INCLUDE MORE VOICES
INCLUDING STUDENTS, LOW INCOME
RENTERS IN THE PARTICIPATION
PROCESS.
BUT I THINK IT'S DISINGENUOUS
THAT WHEN YOU HAVE THIS
LANGUAGE LIMIT BEDROOM BEDROOM
PER UNIT LIMIT UNIT DENSITY IN
THE MASTER PLAN, I THINK YOU'RE
COMPROMISING THOSE VALUES TO
REALLY TRY AND MAKE THE CITY
MORE INCLUSIVE TO THE STUDENTS.
AND I ALSO WANT TO DRAW SOME
THE NOW AS I HEARD IN THE PAST
MONTH INCLUDING CITING FOR
EXAMPLE GRAND RAPIDS PROCESS AS
THE REASON WE WOULD PASS THE
CURRENT COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
PROCESS IS INDEED THAT GRAND
RAPIDS HAS MORE RESIDENT
FOCUSED APPROACH IN THEIR
MASTER PLANNING.
BUT WE ALSO NEED TO NOTICE THAT
THIS IS A CITY THAT HAS
OPERATED WITH OUR SINGLE FAMILY
ZONING FOR ALMOST 20 YEARS AND
ITS MASTER PLANNING PROCESS
ALSO AND DRAG ITS FEET EVEN
WITH A CITY THAT HAS A HIGHER
DENSITY, HAS A HIGHER DENSITY
THAN US.
SO AS A STUDENT I REALLY HOPE
THAT YOU RECONSIDER THE
LANGUAGE AS IT STANDS IN
DETROIT THREE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MAYOR
.
I'M SORRY
ABOUT THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING AN EIGHT THREE
FIVE IRMA MAYOR, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
STAJCIC FROM YOUR PHONE?
HELLO.
GO HEAD.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JEREMIAH THREE RESOLUTION
WE ARE CONSIDERING THIS EVENING
THAT RECOMMENDS ADDITIONAL
EDITS ON THE DRAFT LAND USE
PLAN LITTLE TO IMPROVE UPON
WHAT YOUR PLAN HAS BEEN FROM
THE START A TOP DOWN DEVELOPER
FRIENDLY PLAN DESIGNED TO
TRANSFORM ANN ARBOR WITHOUT THE
FULL KNOWLEDGE OR CONSENT
OF ITS RESIDENTS THAT THIS
RESOLUTION IS POLITICAL
COVER AMONG ITS MINOR
RECOMMENDATIONS, THE RESOLUTION
VAGUELY SUGGESTS POSSIBLE NEW
ZONING DISTRICTS BUT ONLY AFTER
APPROVING THE PLAN THAT WILL
JUSTIFY FUTURE ZONING DECISIONS
.
>> IT VAGUELY SUGGESTS POSSIBLE
SIZE LIMIT ON MULTIPLEX'S
SUPPORTERS OF SPECULATIVE
DEVELOPMENT SUGGESTS WE CAN GET
BEAUTIFUL NEW AFFORDABLE
APARTMENT BUILDINGS BUT WE'RE
NOT FOOLED.
WHAT IN OUR VIEW IS GETTING OUR
OVERPRICED CHEAPLY BUILT LOTS
CHOKING BOXES NOT GREAT
ARCHITECTURE AND MULTI-MILLION
DOLLAR CONDOS.
YOUR PLAN LACKS CREDIBLE DATA
ON ANY CURRENT CONDITIONS AND
HAS WILDLY IMPLAUSIBLE AND
UNSUBSTANTIATED CLAIMS FOR
FUTURE GROWTH.
IT IGNORES MASSIVE
INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS AND ASSUME
WITHOUT EVIDENCE THAT COMMUTERS
WILL FLOCK TO AN OVERCROWDED,
COSTLY CITY.
YOUR PLAN HAS NO PLAN TO
PROTECT OUR TREE CANOPY
ENVIRONMENT OR HISTORIC
DISTRICTS COURT AND OUR
LIVABILITY AND IDENTITY.
>> MOST CRITICALLY, THE PLAN
OFFERS NO REAL SOLUTIONS FOR
HOUSING AFFORDABILITY AND
IGNORES HOW A DIVIDED BY CREDIT
FOR INVESTORS TO DISPLACE
VULNERABLE COMMUNITIES FOR
PROFIT THIRTY RESOLUTION AND
POLITICAL DEFLECTION MEANT TO
APPEASE NOT FIXED.
IT'S NOT SERIOUS.
IT'S TIME TO PASS THE PLAN,
START OVER AND FOR ELECTED
OFFICIALS TO ANSWER NOT TO
DEVELOPERS AND THEIR ALLIES BUT
TO RESIDENTS WHO MAKE AND
HARBOR THE EXTRAORDINARY CITY
IT IS AND WILL BECOME.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LIN SONG
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL IN SONG
FROM OUR COLLEAGUE WITH AN
ONGOING INTEREST IN OUR HOUSING
POLICY AS A CONSTITUENT AND
WHOSE PRIMARY AND ONLY
RESIDENCE IS A HOME LOAN,
SINGLE FAMILY HOME AND A
QUARTER ACRE LOT TWENTY THREE
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET WITH A HALF
PIPE IN HER BACKYARD
.
I AM NOT A RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPER BUT A HOMEOWNER WHO
CHOSE MY NEIGHBORHOOD BECAUSE
IT MET THE NEEDS OF MY THEN
YOUNG FAMILY CLOSE TO THE
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL HOUSE AND
WORK MORE IMPORTANTLY IT'S A
RACIALLY AND SO SOCIALLY
ECONOMICALLY DIVERSE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I'M THREE BLOCKS FROM GREEN
BAXTER COURT WITH LOW CAMP
HOUSING SUPPORTED BY COMMUNITY
ACTION NETWORK, THREE BLOCKS
FROM GREEN BAY APARTMENTS WHERE
ADDITIONAL FAMILIES WITH AND
WITHOUT HOUSING VOUCHERS LIVE
FIVE BLOCKS FROM LAKESHORE HILL
SENIOR LIVING AND POUNDED BY
CONDOS AND TOWNHOMES TO THE
NORTH AND EAST OF MY HOME
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON KNOWS US
BECAUSE WE ARE NEIGHBORS WITHIN
BLOCK OF EACH OTHER.
WE BENEFIT FROM A DUPLEX
TRIPLEX ARE IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I WOULD HOPE SO GIVEN THAT THE
MAJORITY OF OUR TEACHERS DO NOT
LIVE WITHIN OR CLOSTER
NEIGHBORHOOD COMMUTING FROM
ACROSS TOWN IF NOT FARTHER OUT
.
>> IS THERE FEWER THAN AN
APARTMENT WITH UNLIMITED
HEIGHTS WILL BE BUILT WITHIN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD?
YES, BECAUSE THIS BIG LIE HAS
BEEN TOLD FOR YEARS AND
CAMPAIGNS AND BY FORMER ELECTED
LEADERS.
MAY I ASK OF YOU IS THAT AS YOU
FINALIZE A COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN IS TO REFUTE THIS LIE
ALONGSIDE YOUR HOUSING PARTNERS
SUCH AS AVALON HOUSING WATCH,
THE HOUSING ALLIANCE AND THE
HOUSING COMMISSION AND YOUR
STATE AND COUNTY
REPRESENTATIVES THIS VISION TO
TWENTY FIFTY WHEN MANY OF US
WON'T EVEN BE ALIVE ISN'T IT TO
ADVANCE PROGRESS FOR MORE THAN
ONCE A GENERATION IT TOOK 12
YEARS FOR ROLLING IN TO BE
FINANCE BUILT AND WELCOME
RESIDENTS THAT BURDEN
OF ADDITIONAL ADDING ADDITIONAL
UNITS ON PUBLIC PARCELS BECAUSE
RESIDENTS CANNOT ACCEPT MORE
NEIGHBORS ABSOLUTELY IMPACTS
HOUSING AGENCY'S TIMELINE AND
WAIT LIST NEGOTIATING FORUMS
NEGOTIATING AWAY UNITS MEANS
NEGOTIATING WITH PEOPLE AND I
KNOW YOU UNDERSTAND THIS UNJUST
MESS.
I APPRECIATE YOUR WORK SO THAT
QUELLS FEARS BUT I ASK THAT YOU
BUILD ENTHUSIASM, JOY AND
POSITIVITY FOR MORE EQUITABLE
DIVERSITY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS FOR CONNIE
HELLO COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS GAURAV AND I'M
SPEAKING IN OPPOSITION OF DC
THREE AS A WARD FIVE RESIDENT I
FIRST WANT TO SAY THANK YOU TO
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL FOR HER
LEADERSHIP ON THIS ISSUE.
I UNDERSTAND THAT YOU WANT TO
GIVE CONSTITUENTS STRONGER
ASSURANCES ABOUT THE LIMITS
OF WHAT CAN CHANGE BUT MORE
SPECIFICITY DOES THAT REQUIRE
THIS LEVEL OF RESTRICTION?
ZONING IS A VALUE JUDGMENT WHAT
TYPES OF HOUSES BELONG IN
NEIGHBORHOODS AND WHICH ONES
DON'T AND BY EXTENSION WHO
BELONGS IN NEIGHBORHOODS AND
WHO DOESN'T?
>> YOUR RESOLUTION SUGGESTS
THERE ARE NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE A
THREE THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
SINGLE FAMILY HOME BELONGS BUT
IS SIX SIX PLEX WITH THE SAME
BUILDING ENVELOPE DOES NOT.
THAT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE.
THE RESOLUTION SUGGESTS THAT
THERE ARE NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE
NONE OF THESE APARTMENTS NOR
THEIR RESIDENCE BELONG.
THESE REPRESENT REAL HOMES IN
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
ARE WITHIN A THREE STOREY LIMIT
AND SUPPORT WIDER INCOME
RANGES.
I'VE HEARD I'VE ALSO HEARD THE
ARGUMENT THAT A MODEST
INCREASES IN WHEN AN HOUR TWO
ARE STILL TO WIN AND THAT MOST
OF OUR HOUSING WILL COME FROM
TRANSITIONING HUB DISTRICTS.
>> BUT WE DON'T BELIEVE THAT
LIVING IN NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE
BURNS PARKER WATER HILL SHOULD
BE RESERVED FOR WEALTHY AND
ARBORISTS RESIDENTS OF ALL
INCOME LEVELS DESERVE TO LIVE
IN RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT ARE CLOSE TO DOWNTOWN AND
NEAR PARKS AND SCHOOLS.
I'M TIRED OF HEARING WE NEED
MORE HOUSING JUST NOT IN MY
BACKYARD.
THE HOMES YOU SEE HERE ARE A
PATH TO AFFORDABILITY IN THE
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT PEOPLE WANT
TO LIVE IN AUBURN IN OUR TWO
ZONES COVER 67 PERCENT OF OUR
DEVELOPABLE LAND.
THIS RESOLUTION EFFECTIVELY
BANS THESE UNITS FROM TWO
THIRDS OF AVAILABLE SPACE AND
RESERVES THAT SPACE JUST FOR
THOSE WHO CAN AFFORD IT.
PLEASE DO NOT RESTRICT MOST
OF THE CITY TO THREE UNIT
MAXIMUMS.
FORM BASED RESTRICTIONS ALREADY
INSURE BUILDINGS WITH MORE
UNITS WILL FIT IN.
IF YOU HAVE IF YOU HAVE WORRIED
CONSTITUENTS SHOW THEM PICTURES
OF THE APARTMENTS THEY WALK BY
EVERY DAY AND DON'T EVEN
REALIZE THERE ARE SIX FLEXES
TILL THEY LOOK AT THE MAIL
SLOTS, WE CAN SHARE THESE
EXAMPLES WITH YOU TO HELP OUT.
>> SO MANY PEOPLE WANT TO WANT
THE PRECIOUS COMMODITY THAT WE
HAVE.
LET'S ALLOW MORE NEIGHBORS
ACCESS TO IT.
THANK YOU.
YOUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MASTER
MASTER ABOUT TWENTY SEVENTEEN.
VERY SORRY I ASK YOU TO VOTE NO
ON DC THREE BUT I WANT TO START
BY THANKING YOU.
YOU'VE HEARD COMMUNITY FEEDBACK
AND YOU'VE TAKEN OUT SOME
OF THE MOST EGREGIOUS LANGUAGE
FROM THIS MEMO.
I'M ALSO THANKFUL TO COUNCIL
MEMBERS WHO HAVE ENGAGED IN
PRODUCTIVE DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
DETAILS AND ADDED LANGUAGE TO
ENSURE WE CAN REDUCE
DEVELOPMENT BARRIERS TO MISSING
MIDDLE HOUSING.
FINALLY, I WANT TO THANK
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH WHO HAS
CONSISTENTLY CORRECTED
MISINFORMATION AT PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING AND GETS
INTO THE ACADEMIC LITERATURE TO
BACK CLAIMS WITH THAT SAID,
THIS RESOLUTION IS
FUNDAMENTALLY MISPLACED FOR
TRYING TO GET INTO THE DETAILS
OF ZONING WITHOUT THE
EXPERIENCE AND THE DEEP
DISCUSSION PLANNING COMMISSION
LET ALONE OTHER CRITICAL
HOUSING PARTNERS SUCH AS AVALON
TRYING TO PREEMPTIVELY APPLY
ARBITRARY UNIT COUNT LIMITS TO
THE LAND USE CATEGORY WHICH
REPRESENTS THE MAJORITY OF OUR
DEVELOPING LAND IN THE CITY CAN
ONLY END AN INCONSISTENT
APPLICATION OF THE RULE AND
POLITICAL DISASTER.
I'M GLAD YOU PROVIDED SPECIFIC
FORUM BASED DEFINITIONS
OF NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT INSTEAD
OF LEAVING IT AS THE DOG
WHISTLE REPLACEMENT THAT IT IS.
BUT WE ALSO DON'T HAVE AND
SHOULDN'T HAVE A DEFINITION
OF A NEIGHBORHOOD THREE SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES DOWN FROM MINE ARE
A BUNCH OF THREE STORY EIGHT
PLUS UNIT APARTMENTS.
SHOULD MY NEIGHBORHOOD BE ABLE
TO SUPPORT A COMPLEX OR
TOWNHOMES GIVEN THAT THE STREET
HAS HIGHER DENSITY ALREADY?
I THINK SO BUT CREATING THIS
MEMO YOU'RE INTRODUCING YEARS
OF BITTER ZONING BATTLES TO
YOU'VE JUST SEEN LOTS
OF EXAMPLES OF SMALLER HOUSING
OPTIONS THROUGHOUT THE CITY AND
WE HAVE PLENTY OF FOUR THOUSAND
PLUS SQUARE FOOT SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES.
WHY ARE THE FORMER TO BE
METICULOUSLY DOLED AND THE
LATTER ALLOWED BY RIGHT WHEN
WE'RE IN THE MIDDLE OF A
DEVASTATING HOUSING CRISIS?
PLEASE LEAD BY EXAMPLE IN
COMMUNICATING A POSITIVE VISION
FOR THE FUTURE TO YOUR
CONSTITUENTS.
I'D LOVE TO SEE A TOUR
OF MIDDLE HOUSING OPTIONS IN
YOUR WARDS FEATURED ON YOUR
RESPECTIVE NEWSLETTERS AND ON
SOCIAL MEDIA.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
MY NEXT SPEAKER IS TURKER
CALDAS
COORDINATING COUNCIL AND
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK TODAY.
MY NAME IS YOUR GOLDISH AND I
HAPPEN TO BE A RESIDENT AND
OWNER OF A DETACHED MONOPRICE
HOME IN THE FIRST WARD.
I WON'T REHASH THE EXCELLENT
POINTS MADE BY THE PREVIOUS FEW
SPEAKERS BUT I WOULD LIKE TO
SUGGEST THAT IF YOU ARE GOING
TO PASS DC THREE YOU SHOULD ADD
AN AMENDMENT TO DIRECT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO CHANGE
THE TAGLINE OF THE COMP PLAN
FROM A TWO FOR ALL TO A TWO FOR
ME BUT NOT FOR YOU.
THAT WOULD AT LEAST BE AN
HONEST REFLECTION OF THE
SUBSTANCE OF THIS RESOLUTION.
WE'VE ALL SEEN THE VITRIOL AND
PUBLIC COMMENT AND ON SOCIAL
MEDIA A SMALL BUT LOUD GROUP
SPEWING LIES AND
MISINFORMATION, GROTESQUE
CONSPIRACY THEORIES ROUTINELY
CHEERING ON TRAFFIC VIOLENCE
AND CONSTANTLY DEHUMANIZING
PEOPLE WHO DON'T LIVE IN
DETACHED MULTIPLEX HOUSING AS
WE HAVE SEEN OVER AND OVER
AGAIN, THIS TYPE OF ENGAGEMENT
IS NOT IN GOOD FAITH AND I AM
EXTREMELY DISAPPOINTED THAT
ANYONE WOULD SEEK TO PANDER TO
THESE TYPES OF DEPLORABLE
SENTIMENTS INSTEAD
OF CONDEMNING THEM IN THE
STRONGEST POSSIBLE TERMS.
WE ELECTED YOU TO FIX THE
ARTIFICIAL HOUSING SHORTAGE
THAT IS CHOKING THE VITALITY
OF THIS CITY AND WE WILL NOT
WAIT PATIENTLY FOR ANOTHER TEN
OR TWENTY YEARS FOR HALF
HEARTED INCREMENTAL MEASURES.
THE TIME TO UNDO THE MISTAKES
OF THE PAST IS NOW.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ANN ARBOR.
ANN HARBOR NINETEEN FIFTEEN
AUSTEN AVENUE.
LAST FRIDAY WE NOTICED THAT
THERE WAS WATER BUBBLING UP ON
OUR STREET AND AT THE END
OF OUR DRIVEWAY WE CALLED THE
CITY TO REPORT IT.
THEY FINALLY ARRIVED THIS
MORNING AND CUT INTO THE STREET
THE SIZE OF A SMALL SWIMMING
POOL.
THE WORKERS, THE WORKERS SAID
IT WAS A WATER MAIN BREAK.
I ASKED THEM DOES THIS HAPPEN A
LOT?
HE SAID ALL THE TIME THEIR OLD
PIPES THEY ARE CONSTANTLY
LEAKING AND BUSTING JUST A
TYPICAL MONDAY HE SAID THERE IS
NOW A SIX BY TEN CUT AND CUT
RIGHT IN FRONT OF OUR DRIVEWAY
FILLED WITH COAL PATCH.
BUT IRONICALLY THIS IS THE BEST
LOOKING PERSON ON OUR WHOLE
STREET.
THE ROAD IS CRUMBLING.
THERE ARE LARGE POTHOLES AND
LARGE CHUNKS OF ASPHALT LYING
IN THE ROAD AND THE CROSSWALK I
BEEN WATCHING THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN PROCESS FOR MONTHS AND
INFRASTRUCTURE IS A BIG PART
OF THE CONVERSATION.
WHY IS THE INFRASTRUCTURE
ANALYSIS AND REPORT NOT IN THE
PLAN?
I ATTENDED A MEETING LAST MONTH
WHERE THE MAYOR SAID THAT
UPDATES TO OUR INFRASTRUCTURE
WOULD BE PAID BY THE DEVELOPERS
AND THE RATEPAYERS, NOT THE
TAXPAYERS.
LAST WEEK COUNCILMAN COUNCIL
MEMBER STATED THAT THE THAT THE
RATEPAYERS WOULD NOT PAY FOR
THE INFRASTRUCTURE UPDATES.
WHICH ONE IS IT AND WHAT IS THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A RATEPAYER
AND A TAXPAYER?
I EMAILED COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
ASKING WHAT THE DISCREPANCY WAS
AND SHE SAID SHE WOULD HAVE THE
CITY ATTORNEY RESPOND.
THAT WAS LAST TUESDAY.
I EMAILED COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
THIS MORNING FOR AN UPDATE AND
SHE STILL HAS NOT RECEIVED
ANYTHING FROM THE CITY
ATTORNEY.
IT SEEMS LIKE AN EASY ANSWER
QUESTION TO ANSWER WHILE I
APPRECIATE THE FACT THAT THE
COUNCIL IS NOW LISTENING TO THE
CITIZENS CONCERNS.
I'M NOT SURE HOW MANY HOW ANY
PART OF YOUR RESOLUTION IS
ENFORCED WHEN IT COMES TO
ZONING CHANGES THAT WILL OCCUR
WHEN THE PLAN IS ADOPTED
INSTEAD OF MAKING
RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION DEMAND THAT THE PLAN
INCORPORATES ALL THE PORTIONS
OF THE PLAN THAT IS MISSING
LIKE INFRASTRUCTURE STUDIES, WE
DESERVE A BETTER PLAN.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM MACU
COLLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING THE PHONE NUMBER AND
CALL FOR GO.
GO AHEAD.
YES, WE CAN OK.
>> HI MY NAME IS ADAM Q I LIVE
IN WARD FIVE AND I WANTED TO
SPEAK TODAY IN MY OPPOSITION TO
THE RESOLUTION REGARDING THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
BEING INTRODUCED.
THIS RESOLUTION SCREAMS
OF NIMBY UNDERTONES IN THE
HOUSING CRISIS IS PERPETUATED
BY POLICY LIKE THESE PROVIDING
A LIMIT TO THE NUMBER OF OTHER
UNITS OR BUILDING CONSIDERATION
OF NEIGHBORHOOD CONTACT AND
CREATING FURTHER ZONING
DISTRICTS TO SUBDIVIDE HOUSING
WHICH NOT WATERED DOWN THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN AND
SHOULD NOT DELAY ITS APPROVAL.
WE DO NOT NEED MORE
CONSULTATION.
WE NEED MORE ACTION.
I WASN'T EVEN LIVING IN ANN
ARBOR AT THE TIME THAT I HEARD
ABOUT AND ATTENDED THE FIRST
WORKSHOPS TO START DEVELOPING
THE PLAN AND THOSE ARE THE
EXACT THINGS THAT MADE ME WANT
TO MOVE TO ANN ARBOR.
MOST OF EUROPE AND MUCH OF ASIA
IS FULL OF EXAMPLES OF THESE
HOUSING AND ZONING POLICIES
WORKING PUTTING LIMITATIONS IN
THE PLAN IS TOXIC TO THE GOALS
OF THE PLAN AND THE GOAL THAT
EVERYONE IN IOWA WHO WANTS MORE
AND BETTER HOUSING, LESS
GREENHOUSE GASES AND LESS CARS
ON THE ROAD ANN ARBOR AND A
LAND AREA OF TWENTY NINE SQUARE
MILES AND HOUSES ABOUT ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY THOUSAND
RESIDENTS WHEREAS EARTH IS
FORTY ONE SQUARE MILES AND
HOUSES TWO POINT ONE MILLION
RESIDENT.
I SAY THAT'S NOT TO SAY THAT WE
SHOULD BE COMPARED BUT TO
ILLUSTRATE HOW INEFFICIENT OUR
LAND CURRENTLY IS OR CONTINUE
TO BE LIKE THIS CONTINUE TO
AFFECT AND REVERSE HOUSING
FUTURE FEELS VERY MUCH LIKE A
REFLECTION OF THE HOMEOWNER THE
HOMEOWNER CLASSES WILL ON THE
REST OF ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS AND
WOULD BE RESIDENT OVERCLASS ARE
CONCERNED WITH THE UPPER
CLASSES, ARE CONCERNED WITH THE
CHARACTERS NEIGHBORHOOD.
EVERYONE ELSE IS WORRIED ABOUT
WHERE THEY WERE GOING TO LIVE,
HOW MUCH RENT THEY CAN AFFORD
AND HOW LONG THE COMMUTE HOLBY
CITY THOSE THEY GROW AND AND
PROVIDE PLENTIFUL NEW HOUSING
FOR THAT GROWTH PLEASE VOTE
AGAIN.
THIS RESOLUTION WILL CONTINUE
ANN ARBOR ON ITS PATH TO A
HEALTHIER HOUSING MARKET.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JONATHAN
LEVINE.
>> GOOD EVENING.
JONATHAN LEVINE FOUR FIVE SIX
A.M. I AM HERE TO URGE YOU TO
AMEND DC THREE TO BETTER ALIGN
WITH YOUR STATED GOALS FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
ADDING NEW HOMES AND SINGLE
FAMILY AREAS AND REPAIRING PAST
EXCLUSIONARY POLICIES.
MY PRIMARY CONCERN IS A THREE
UNIT CAP.
WELL I UNDERSTAND THE AMENDMENT
DOESN'T EXPLICITLY IMPOSE THIS
CAP CITYWIDE.
IT ESTABLISHES A PERNICIOUS
PRINCIPLE BY STATING THAT
DUPLEXES AND TARGET PLACES HAVE
QUOTE WIDESPREAD OPPORTUNITY
FOR DEVELOPMENT WHERE LARGER
BUILDINGS NEED TO QUOTE FIT
EXISTING NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT.
WE'RE ESSENTIALLY SETTING UP A
DEFAULT WHERE THREE UNIT LIMIT
WITH AN IMPLIED BURDEN OF PROOF
FOR ANYTHING LARGER.
THIS FRAMEWORK WILL INEVITABLY
PIT NEIGHBORS NEIGHBORHOODS
AGAINST EACH OTHER RESIDENTS IN
AREAS DEEMED SUITABLE FOR SMALL
APARTMENT BUILDINGS WILL
RIGHTFULLY BE RESENT BEING
SINGLED OUT FOR DENSER
DEVELOPMENT.
THE PATH OF LEAST RESISTANCE
WILL BE TO APPLY THE THREE UNIT
CAP EVERYWHERE DEFEATING OUR
HOUSING GOALS.
WE HAVE REAL WORLD EVIDENCE
THAT THIS APPROACH DOESN'T WORK
.
AS ADAM SPOKE ABOUT EARLIER,
MINNEAPOLIS' ELIMINATED SINGLE
FAMILY ZONING TWENTY IN TWENTY
SIXTEEN BUT FAILED TO GENERATE
NEW HOMES IN THEIR FORMER
SINGLE FAMILY ZONE.
WE CAN'T REPEAT THAT EXERCISE
WHILE REMAINING REMAINING TRUE
TO THE GOALS THAT WE'VE SET FOR
OURSELVES.
WHAT'S MORE, THE THREE UNIT CAP
HAS PERVERSE INCENTIVES WHEN
DEVELOPERS ARE LIMITED TO THREE
UNITS TO THE EXTENT THAT THEY
DEVELOP HOUSING AT ALL THEY
THEY'LL BUILD FEWER LARGER
UNITS.
WE HAVE NO INTEREST IN FEWER
LARGER UNITS IF OUR INTEREST IS
IN AFFORDABILITY AND CERTAINLY
NOT IN ENCOURAGING A PARTICULAR
BUILDING FORM OF FIVE AND SIX
BEDROOMS PER PER KITCHEN AND
UNITS THAT ARE MARKETED TO
STUDENTS, I DON'T THINK WE HAVE
ANY INTEREST IN INCENTIVIZING
THESE KINDS OF DEVELOPMENT.
I THINK THAT WE'RE SPENDING A
LOT AND GETTING VERY LITTLE OUT
OF THIS AMENDMENT.
THANK THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DENHA
CAMERON
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN ZERO SEVEN NINE STAR
SIX ON MUTE YOUR PHONE
CALLER
ENDING IN 079
CALLER ENDING IN
THE PHONE NUMBER NINE NINE NINE
MONICA MORA GO AHEAD.
>> HI.
YEAH THAT'S MY PHONE NUMBER IS
EIGHT NINE NINE NINE.
HI, I'M MONICA MORAN AND I
WOULD LIKE TO TELL YOU ABOUT
WITHIN OUR IN TRAVELING FOR MY
JOB NATURE CONSERVATION PEOPLE
OFTEN ASK ME WHERE I'M FROM AND
WHAT I ANSWER THAT I WAS BORN
AND RAISED IN ANN ARBOR.
THE REACTION IS SOMETIMES A
LITTLE AND TO BE HONEST I OFTEN
FEEL A LITTLE EMBARRASSED.
THE TRUTH IS I LOVE ANN ARBOR
AND I LOVE LIVING HERE.
BUT THEN WHY DO I FEEL
EMBARRASSED ABOUT THAT AMONG MY
PEERS AND I HAVE A REPUTATION
AS A PROGRESSIVE CITY THAT
CLAIM TO BE FOR DIVERSITY AND
RACIAL EQUALITY BUT IN REALITY
TO BE LITTLE TO RECTIFY ITS
HISTORY OF EXCLUSION AND IN THE
PRESENT DAY THAT MAKES THE CITY
UNAFFORDABLE, STERILE AND ABOVE
ALL UNAPPROACHABLE TO PEOPLE
WHO ARE NOT LUCKY ENOUGH TO
HAVE THE MONEY NECESSARY TO
LIVE HERE BUT EXTEND FOR ME MY
PARENTS WERE AMONG THE LUCKY
FEW AND I'M ABLE TO REMAIN IN
THE AREA FOR THE TIME BEING I
LIVING WITH THEM BUT GIVEN THAT
A YOUNG PERSON IN A NOT VERY
LUCRATIVE CAREER CONTINUING TO
LIVE IN ANN ARBOR ONCE I FIND A
PLACE OF MY OWN JUST FEEL
FINANCIALLY IRRESPONSIVE.
IF THE COUNCIL PASSED A
RESOLUTION DC THREE THEN THAT
SIGNAL TO ME THAT THEY ARE FINE
WITH THAT STATUS QUO AND THAT
THEY ARE FINE BUT THE REALITY
THAT YOUNG PEOPLE LIKE ME WILL
MOVE OUT AND AT BEST BECOME
COMMUTERS THAT COST THE CITY
MONEY AND ROAD MAINTENANCE A
PARKING INSTEAD OF FINDING
AFFORDABLE HOUSING HERE AT HOME
AND CONTINUING TO VOLUNTEER AND
CONTRIBUTE TO THE ECONOMY
WITHIN THE COMMUNITY WHICH IS
WHAT I DO WHEN I LIVE HERE AND
AS I'M SURE EVERYONE WILL BE IN
THE MIDST OF A NATIONWIDE
HOUSING CRISIS, THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN GIVES US THE
OPPORTUNITY THE OPPORTUNITY TO
MAKE AN ALBUM AS A PIONEER
OF HOW TO RESPOND TO THE NEEDS
OF PEOPLE AND PROVIDE SECURE
AFFORDABLE FUTURE PASSANT B3 ON
THE OTHER HAND WILL SPEND THAT
OPPORTUNITY AND KEEP MOST
OF THE CITY TRAPPED IN THE PATH
.
LET'S ALLOW FOR MISSING LITTLE
HOUSING ACROSS THE CITY.
MEET THE NEEDS OF PEOPLE AND
MAKE IT A REAL PLACE AND TRULY
PROUD TO CALL HOME THE REJECT
REVOLUTION DC THREE THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ROWAN
ANASTACIA COLOR AT THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN THREE ONE
THREE OH NO RUNNING IN THREE
ONE THREE PRESTER SIX YOUR
PHONE.
>> HELLO.
GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES WE CAN.
HI MY NAME IS RONI.
THANK YOU.
>> MY NAME IS RUDY ANASTASIYA.
I AM A RESIDENT OF WHAT TO I AM
HERE TO REQUEST THE COUNCIL TO
CONSIDER OPPOSING THE PLAN.
I WAS MADE AWARE OF THE
RESOLUTION TODAY AND IT SOUNDS
LIKE NO ONE IS HAPPY ABOUT IT
BECAUSE THE PEOPLE WHO WANT THE
PLAN TO BE PAUSED AND DON'T
WANT TO SEE HYPER DEVELOPMENT
OF ANN ARBOR THAT IS DESTROYING
THE UNIQUE IDENTITY OF THIS
PLACE THAT HAS BEEN HOME TO SO
MANY PEOPLE FOR SO LONG ARE
UNHAPPY ABOUT IT.
AND IT ALSO SOUNDS LIKE THE
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO SEE ANN
ARBOR CONTINUE TO BE DEVELOPED
IN THE AIM OF PROMOTING MORE
PEOPLE HERE ARE NOT HAPPY ABOUT
IT AND I EMPATHIZE WITH COUNCIL
BECAUSE IT'S REALLY HARD TO
COME UP WITH A PLAN THAT MAKES
NO ONE HAPPY AND EVERYONE MAD
AT YOU.
SO I RESPECT THAT IT'S BEEN
GREAT.
SO MANY PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
WILLING TO COME OUT AND AND
SPEAK UP ABOUT THIS.
CLEARLY THERE IS A VERY URGENT
NEED FOR MORE TIME TO CONSIDER
HOW THIS COMMUNITY CAN COME
TOGETHER AND ACTUALLY LOOK LIKE
A COMMUNITY AND WORK TOGETHER
IN ORDER TO PROMOTE INCLUSIVE
FUTURE THAT HONESTLY IT SOUNDS
LIKE EVERYBODY WANTS.
>> I THINK THAT IT'S IMPORTANT
TO 30 SECONDS.
OH OK.
THANK YOU.
THE THE PLEASE RECONSIDER
OPPOSING THIS PLAN AND BULLRUSH
STRATEGY DEVELOPMENT AND
CONSTRUCTION THAT HAS BEEN SO
MANY WONDERFUL BUSINESSES AND
HAS PRICED OUT SO MANY
RESIDENTS ALREADY AND CONTINUES
TO BE A THREAT AND EXCLUDES THE
POSSIBILITY OF BEING MORE
INCLUSIVE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ELLIOT
GLAZY HELLO COUNCIL AND THANK
YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO
ADDRESS YOU ALL THIS EVENING AS
A LIFELONG CHARLOTTE COUNTY
RESIDENT WHO'S BEEN PRICED OUT
OF THE CITY, I AM HERE TO SPEAK
IN OPPOSITION TO DC.
I APPRECIATE THE WORK THAT
COUNCIL HAS DONE SO FAR IN
TRYING TO BRING OUR CITY IN A
MORE INCLUSIVE DIRECTION.
BUT DC THREE UNDERMINES THAT
WORK INEFFECTIVELY PANDERING TO
CONCERTED DISINFORMATION
CAMPAIGN EVERY POSITIVE PLAN
SIGN CONTAINS A LIE THAT ONE'S
NEIGHBORHOOD IS BEING ZONED.
THAT'S NOT TRUE.
BUT THIS RESOLUTION WHICH
INCLUDES LANGUAGE THAT SUGGESTS
A ZONING STYLE RESTRICTIONS OR
THE RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY CATERS
TO THAT DISHONEST POSITION IF
IT WERE LEGITIMATE.
ADDITIONALLY, TRYING TO
RESTRICT STUDENT HOUSING TO
SPECIFIC PARTS OF THE CITY IS
UNFAIR.
RESIDENTIAL AREAS WHERE THERE'S
HIGH DEMAND FOR STUDENT HOUSING
SHOULD HAVE MORE STUDENT
HOUSING BECAUSE THAT'S
WHAT'S
MOST DESPERATELY NEEDED.
THE ONLY REASON ANN ARBOR IS
SUCH A DESIRABLE PLACE IS
BECAUSE OF OUR STUDENTS.
THEY DO NOT DESERVE TO BE
TREATED AS SECOND CLASS
CITIZENS.
I UNDERSTAND THAT COUNCIL IS
CONCERNED ABOUT THE POSSIBLE
PLANNED BACKLASH BUT THIS IS A
BACKLASH BASED ON REACTIONARY
CONSPIRACIES WITH THE DESIRE
OF IMPLEMENTING POLICIES THE
PROTECTION OF SINGLE FAMILY
ZONING STRAIGHT OUT OF PROJECT
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE IT DOESN'T
IN LIGHT OF OUR VALUES AND
ESPECIALLY NOT WITH YOUR VOTERS
WHO CHOSE UNANIMOUS PRO HOUSING
COUNCIL MEMBERS IN EACH OF THE
PAST THREE ELECTION CYCLES.
THIS RESOLUTION AND THE
BACKLASH THE COMMENTS MADE BY
SOME OTHERS TODAY SHOW THAT
CLEARLY THE BACKLASH ONLY
HAPPENED ONCE THE PLAN IS
ENACTED AND THE WORLD DOESN'T
END.
SO THE WAY THE PLAN ONLY GIVES
THEM MORE POWER INSTEAD WE
SHOULD START THE MOVEMENT
OF ATTENTION.
PLEASE REJECT THIS RESOLUTION.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS NANCY
NANCY
LEFFE
NANCY, IF YOU'RE ON FILM
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND
.
I DON'T SEE THIS CALLER ON LINE
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JULIA
.
RITTER
I THINK THE RULE I THINK THE I
DON'T KNOW IF WE HAVE A PROCESS
FOR DEFERRAL, MA'AM FOR TWO
MINUTES WILL BE AT THE IT'LL BE
TWO MINUTES AT THE END AS WELL.
YOU WISH TO SPEAK NOW?
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS NICHOLAS
HERNANDEZ FLORES.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS NICOLAS FLORAS AWARD
FOR I'M EXCITED TO SPEAK IN MY
FIRST CITY COUNCIL MEETING BUT
SADDENED TO LET YOU KNOW THAT
AT THE END OF THIS MONTH I WILL
NO LONGER BE AWARD FOR
RESIDENT.
THAT IS BECAUSE MY WIFE AND I
WERE PRICED OUT OF THE BERN'S
PARK NEIGHBORHOOD THAT WE
CALLED HOME DURING OUR FIRST
THREE YEARS AS ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS.
WE LOVED THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE LOVE THE SHORT THROW TO OUR
GUESTS AND GOOD WHICH WE WENT
TO WAY TOO OFTEN.
WE LOVED HAVING THE CAMPUS IN
DOWNTOWN A CONVENIENT WALK,
BIKE RIDE OR TRIP ON ROUTE FIVE
AWAY.
WE HAD WONDERFUL NEIGHBORS AND
VERY OFTEN SAW THE MAYOR OF OUR
CITY CYCLING JUST A BLOCK AWAY.
>> THAT'S NOT SOMETHING YOU SEE
IN A LOT OF PLACES.
>> WE WERE THE ONLY APARTMENT
BUILDING IN OUR BLOCK AND ONLY
ONE OF A SMALL NUMBER IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO IT WASN'T A SURPRISE WHEN WE
WERE PRICED OUT.
THAT'S JUST SUPPLY AND DEMAND.
I WASN'T BITTER INSTEAD I WAS
ACTUALLY HEARTENED TO KNOW THAT
THIS THAT JUST AS THIS WAS
HAPPENING THE CITY WAS
DEVELOPING A NEW COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN THAT WOULD MAKE IT EASIER
FOR RECENTLY ESTABLISHED
RESIDENTS TO HAVE THE WONDERFUL
EXPERIENCE WE HAD FOR A LONGER
PERIOD OF TIME.
SO YOU CAN IMAGINE MY
DISAPPOINTMENT TO HEAR THAT
THIS PLAN MIGHT BE WATERED DOWN
AND DELAYED WHILE WE'RE
BUILDINGS HOUSING PLAN OUR
FEDERAL LANDSCAPE IS BECOMING
FRIGHTENING.
THESE ARE NOT DISCONNECTED.
WE ARE IN THIS POSITION BECAUSE
BAD ACTORS USE OUR CITY TO TURN
FEAR OF OUTSIDERS INTO VOTES
AND I SHOULD KNOW I AM AN
IMMIGRANT IN THE PROCESS
OF GETTING UNITED STATES
CITIZENSHIP IN ADDITION TO
BEING AN ANN ARBOR RESIDENT
WHEN LOCAL GOVERNMENTS CHOOSE
OUR CITY YOU PLAY INTO THESE
BAD ACTORS HANDS WHEN LOCAL
GOVERNMENTS LET THEIR CITIES
BECOME UNAFFORDABLE, PEOPLE
LEAVE AND WHEN THAT HAPPENS THE
POLITICAL POWER WE AT THE LOCAL
LEVEL IS LOST.
BUT BEYOND ALL THAT I BELIEVE
THAT YOU ALL HAVE A
RESPONSIBILITY TO THE CITY'S
RESIDENTS EXISTING RECENT AND
YET TO BE DELAYING THESE LONG
NEEDED CHANGES WOULD BE FAILING
THAT RESPONSIBILITY.
PLEASE REJECT THIS RESOLUTION
AND CONTINUE MAKING THE CITY'S
HOUSING POLICY MATCH ITS
VALUES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JAMES
FIELDS AND JAMES FIELDS.
THAT'S ALSO MY DAD'S NAME.
I ACTUALLY GO BY MY MIDDLE NAME
BRUCE BUT I'VE BEEN THINKING
ABOUT MY PARENTS A LOT LATELY
BECAUSE THEY WERE BOTH STUDENTS
HERE IN NINETEEN SEVENTY WHEN I
WAS BORN THEY LIVED IN THE
RENTED UPPER STORY OF HOUSE IN
LOWERTOWN AND THE WHAT IS NOW
BEEKMAN AND I AFTER THOSE FEW
MONTHS LEFT DIDN'T COME BACK
UNTIL IT WAS TIME FOR MY NOW
WIFE AND I TO TO ATTEND GRAD
SCHOOL AND THEN WE ENDED UP
STAYING SO SOMETIMES IT FEELS
LIKE A LOT OF THE DISCUSSION
AROUND ZONING IN ANN ARBOR IS
ABOUT SEPARATING THE STUDENT
RESIDENTIAL USE FROM THE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL USE, WHATEVER THAT
IS AND MY FAMILY'S STORY JUST
REMINDS ME THAT THE STUDENTS
OFTEN COME WITH FAMILIES
OF VARYING SIZES AND THEN IT'S
HARD TO SEPARATE THESE
DIFFERENT TYPES OF PEOPLE INTO
DIFFERENT NEIGHBORHOODS.
IT'S 50 SOME YEARS LATER NOW
AND IT'S TIME FOR MY GENERATION
TO DEAL WITH TAKING CARE OF THE
OLDER GENERATION AND WE'VE
SPENDING SPENDING A LOT OF TIME
THINKING ABOUT WHERE OUR
PARENTS ARE GOING TO LIVE AND
WE RUN INTO A LOT OF THE SAME
ISSUES.
YOU KNOW, I TALK WITH MY
FRIENDS A LOT AND A LOT
OF PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO FIND
SENIOR LIVING COMMUNITIES WHERE
THEIR PARENTS LIVE THAT ARE
STILL A REASONABLE DAILY VISIT
FROM WHERE THEY LIVE OR ELSE
THEY'RE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO MODIFY THEIR HOUSE SO
THAT THEIR PARENTS CAN LIVE
WITH THEM OR TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT HOW THEY CAN FIND UNITS IN
THE SAME BUILDING.
SO I'M JUST HERE TO BRING UP
THOSE DIFFERENT EXAMPLES AS A
REMINDER THAT WE REALLY NEED TO
WHENEVER WE HAVE THE CHOICE I
THINK PRIORITIZE FLEXIBILITY
AND ZONING RULES.
>> THAT'S ALL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
YOUR NEXT SPEAKER IS WENDY
KAUFMAN
.
>> CALL HER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN ZERO ONE NINE
OH SORRY CALLER ENDING AND SIX
NINE THREE.
YES, MY NAME IS WENDY SHERMAN
AND I LOOK YES.
>> GO AHEAD.
I CAN HEAR YOU.
MY NAME IS WENDY SHERMAN.
I LOVE IT.
TWENTY THREE FORTY GEORGETOWN.
I REPRESENT THE INNER
REPUBLICAN MANY CITY COMMITTEES
THE ZIBA THE NATURAL FEATURES
ORDINANCE COMMITTEE, THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSIONS
BIODIVERSITY COMMITTEE AND IN
TWENTY NINE ON THE COMMITTEE
THAT ORIGINALLY CHOSE THE
INTERFACE STUDIO AND SINCE THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CONSULTANT A
GLARING MISTAKE AND PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT PROCESS FOR YOUR
PLAN WITH THE LOOTING THE
GENERAL PUBLIC DIALOG OPINIONS
WERE DIRECTLY SOLICITED FROM
STAKEHOLDERS.
THE GENERAL PUBLIC WERE NOT
CONSIDERED STAKEHOLDERS.
NO NOTICES WERE MAILED TO THE
GENERAL PUBLIC.
THEIR PARTICIPATION REQUIRED
BEING IN THE NO.
MOST RESIDENTS ARE STILL LEFT
IN THE DARK.
THEY HAVE NOT HAD AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PARTICIPATE IN
DIALOG WITH THE CITY ABOUT
THEIR VISION FOR THEIR CITY
BENEATH THE GRAPHICS VAGUE
LANGUAGE YOUR PLAN APPEARS
DESIGNED TO GIVE STAFF COUNCIL
PLANNING COMMISSION MAXIMUM
LEEWAY TO DO WHAT THEY WANT AND
TO LET THE FREE MARKET CREATE
WHATEVER IT WANTS.
TONIGHT'S RESOLUTION OFFERS LIP
SERVICE TO SOME OF THE THINGS
YOU HEARD FROM THE PUBLIC SINCE
YOUR PLAN WAS RELEASED.
BUT THIS LEADS THEM RATHER THAN
ACCEPTING WHAT THEY HAVE TOLD
YOU AGAIN YOU'RE NOT LISTENING
TO THE UNDERLYING REQUEST TO
OPPOSE THE PLAN AND MAKE TIME
FOR ACTUAL DIALOG WITH
NEIGHBORHOODS AND COMMUNITY
CRITICALLY OR NOT WITH LEAVES
OUT THE MOST IMPORTANT CHANGES
NEEDED.
ONE EXAMPLE YOU ARE
DISREGARDING DISCARDING OUR
STRONG NATURAL FEATURES MASTER
PLAN IN FAVOR OF DEBRIS FLYING
THIRTY SECOND DOWNGRADE THE
ENVIRONMENTAL PRIORITIES WHICH
SHOULD BE PARAMOUNT WITHOUT
PROTECTING THE CITY'S
SIGNIFICANT NATURAL FEATURES.
THE CITY IS NOT SUSTAINABLE.
YOU HAVE IGNORED THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION'S
RECOMMENDED TO SAFEGUARD OUR
ENVIRONMENT AND THIS IS
UNACCEPTABLE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
YOU'RE OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SIR
ALAN STRALMAN
MAYOR AND I
THOUGHT YOU WERE ON THE PHONE.
SORRY.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL.
FIRST I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
CONTINUING TO BE SO RESPONSIVE
TO RESIDENT FEEDBACK IN
ADDITION TO THE OFFICIAL PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT EVENTS THAT BEGAN
LONG AS LONG AGO AS LAST YEAR
QUITE AS IT'S APPARENTLY BEEN
KEPT YOU POSTED SMALLER TOWN
HALLS IN YOUR WARDS AND
LISTENED TO PEOPLE WHO REACHED
OUT TO YOU INCLUDING MYSELF.
THE REVISIONS MADE DC THREE
BEFORE THE MEETING TONIGHT ARE
ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF HOW
RESPONSIVE YOU ARE BEING IN A
TRYING TIME.
IT'S NOT PERFECT AND THERE ARE
THINGS I DON'T LOVE ABOUT IT
STILL BUT I APPRECIATE YOU
ATTEMPTING TO REACH COMPROMISE
ESPECIALLY DURING SUCH A TENSE
AND HIGHLY CHARGED MOMENT.
I ALSO KNOW IT'S FRUSTRATING TO
MANY RESIDENTS THAT THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN IS
MEANT TO BE A HIGH LEVEL PLAN
WITHOUT A TON OF SPECIFICS.
THOSE DETAILS COME WITH THE
ZONING AS MANY OF YOU HAVE TOLD
PEOPLE MANY TIMES I HAVE
WEIRDLY BECOME VERY INTERESTED
IN THIS TYPE OF STUFF BUT I
REALIZE A LOT OF PEOPLE AREN'T
.
AND IN THE ABSENCE OF ROBUST
MESSAGING FROM CITY BAD ACTORS,
I'VE BEEN ABLE TO SPREAD
DISINFORMATION THAT
UNDERSTANDABLY SCARING PEOPLE.
I RECENTLY HAD AN EXCHANGE WITH
SOMEONE ON SOCIAL MEDIA WHO
ASSUMED THAT A COMPLEX WAS A
FOUR STORY BUILDING SHOWING HER
A PHOTO OF THE QUAD THAT'S
UNASSUMING JUST A COUPLE HOUSES
DOWN FOR ME IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
HELPED HER UNDERSTAND WHAT WE
WERE TALKING ABOUT AND SHE WAS
PLEASANTLY SURPRISED GOING
FORWARD I HOPE
YOU ALL CAN USE
THE TOOLS AT YOUR FINGERTIPS,
YOUR WEBSITES, YOUR NEWSLETTERS
TO REACH THE VAST MAJORITY
OF YOUR CONSTITUENTS.
I AM GRATEFUL TO THOSE OF YOU,
DARMA IN PARTICULAR IN WORD FOR
WHO HAVE CONTINUE TO TRY TO
REACH OUT TO YOUR RESIDENTS.
I KNOW HOW DIFFICULT THAT IS.
I ALSO KNOW THAT LISA HAS TRIED
VERY, VERY HARD AS THE LIAISON
ON PLANNING TO DO THE SAME.
IF YOU USE ALL OF THE TOOLS AT
YOUR FINGERTIPS I KNOW THAT YOU
CAN EXPLAIN THIS COMPLEX
RESIDENT COMPLEX TERMINOLOGY TO
YOUR RESIDENTS JUST LIKE YOU
THEY ARE SMART AND CAPABLE
PEOPLE WHO CAN UNDERSTAND WHAT
FORM BASED ZONING IS.
I KNOW YOU ARE AND SO ARE WE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LISA
JENIN'S
LISA JAVINS ON ZOOME GO
AHEAD.
YES, I'M HERE REGARDING THE
COUNCIL RESOLUTION THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING I SEE THERE IS
THE REQUEST FOR AN ADDITIONAL
ITERATION OF THE GRAPPLER AND
EIGHTY FOUR THOUSAND DOLLARS
MORE TO DO IT.
I THINK THIS IS THROWING GOOD
MONEY AFTER BAD.
WE HAVE ALREADY SPENT OVER
THREE QUARTERS OF A MILLION
DOLLARS ON A PLAN THAT IS
MISSING ALMOST EVERYTHING A
PLAN SHOULD HAVE CORRECT DATA
SOURCES A SCIENTIFIC SURVEY
OF RESIDENTS DIRECTED PARKLAND
VALUES PROPERLY EXPLAINED I
PLAN FOR ATTAINABLE PRICED
HOUSING, A CRIME REPORT AND
INFRASTRUCTURE ASSESSMENT AND
FUNDING PLAN FOR GROWTH OF CITY
SERVICES PLAN FOR FUTURE FIRE
AND POLICE TO SERVE MORE
RESIDENTS OUR OWN NATURAL
FEATURES PLAN AND A LAND USE
MAP WITH ENOUGH FLEXIBILITY TO
MAKE SENSE IN EVERY AREA OF OUR
CITY.
AFTER TWO YEARS OF IGNORING ALL
BUT A SMALL PERCENTAGE
OF RESIDENTS, THE CITY COUNCIL
IS NOW TRYING TO BACKFILL THE
PLAN WITH STATEMENTS DESIGNED
TO PACIFY THEM.
I FIND THIS TO BE A TRANSPARENT
POLITICAL MOVE THAT WILL LIKELY
BE IGNORED BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ANYWAY DUE TO ITS
RADICALLY DIFFERENT APPROACH
AND BELIEF SYSTEM SPENDING
ANOTHER EIGHTY FOUR THOUSAND
DOLLARS ON AN INCOMPLETE AND
INADEQUATE PLAN THAT NOBODY
AGREES ON ANYWAY IS A WASTE
OF MONEY WE SHOULD BE DEMANDING
WHAT WE ALREADY PAID FOR
NOTHING MORE.
IT'S NO SURPRISE THAT THE
TIMELINE IS BACKED UP DUE TO
THE EXTENDED PUBLIC COMMENTARY
FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE STILL
DISCOVERING THAT THE PLAN EVEN
EXISTS.
NEIGHBORHOOD INPUT SHOULD HAVE
BEEN GATHERED AT THE BEGINNING
,NOT SHOEHORNED IN AT THE END
THE WHOLE PROCESS HAS BEEN DONE
WRONG AND ANOTHER EIGHTY FOUR
THOUSAND DOLLARS IS NOT GOING
TO FIX IT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT IS HIDE
HOLLERITH
OPPONENT RUNNING IN 079 LUCHI
GO AHEAD I CAN HEAR ME.
>> YES WE CAN YEAH HI MY NAME
AND I WANT TO THANK THE
SPONSORS AND I'M VERY
ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT IT AT FIRST
NO I WANT TO BUY A TOWNHOUSE
THAT EXISTS IN DOWNTOWN.
I'M PART OF A GENERATION I'VE
BEEN HARD TO BUY HOMES.
I THINK WE NEED TO ADD MORE
DENSITY AND GROW AS A CITY.
I ALSO THINK UPON READING THAT
PLAN THERE'S SOME CLEAR
WEAKNESSES AND PROBLEMS IN THIS
PLAN.
I THINK THIS PROPOSAL DC THREE
ADDRESSES MANY OF THESE CLEAR
WEAKNESSES.
OUR STUDENTS ARE A MAJOR SOURCE
OF GROWTH IN THE CITY AND YET I
BARELY MENTIONED IN PLANNING WE
NEED A PLAN THAT GROWS STUDENT
HOUSES AND INCREASES HIGHER
QUALITY AND LOWER COST OPTIONS
FOR STUDENTS.
>> AT THE SAME TIME WE HAVE TO
RECOGNIZE THAT MARKET PRESSURES
ARE DIFFERENT IN DIFFERENT FOR
THE TOWN.
WE NEED TO PLAN ACCORDINGLY.
THIS PLAN HAS TRIED TO ADDRESS
INJUSTICES BY AND MANY SINGLE
FAMILY HOUSING AND WORRIED THE
PLAN CURRENTLY THIS IS THE NEW
MAJOR ISSUE COMING UP PRIVATE
EQUITY AT THE TOP ONE PERCENT
ARE BUYING UP REAL ESTATE
RAPIDLY IN ANN ARBOR AND
NATIONWIDE.
I DON'T WANT IN AND NEAR CAMPUS
IN DOWNTOWN BOSTON A PLACE
WHERE YOU CAN ONLY AIRBNB LEVEL
OF STREET THAT IS ALREADY
FEELING THE CHANGES THE PLAN
WOULD MAKE CITYWIDE.
THAT'S CHANGING OUR STREET
RAPIDLY FROM ONE THAT'S
CONSISTENT WITH THE PLAN WITH A
DIVERSITY OF HOUSING INCLUDING
SMALL APARTMENTS, DUPLEX WITH A
DETACHED HOME WITH A MIX
OF PERMANENT RESIDENTS AND
SHORT TERM RENTALS TO A STREET
THAT WILL BE DOMINATED.
I DON'T CHEAP STUDENT HOUSING
BUT IT'S NOT GOOD ENOUGH TO
ACTUALLY HELP ADDRESS DID BUT
IT CAUSED AN ACCIDENT EXODUS
OF PERMANENT RESIDENTS AND
DECREASES IN AVAILABLE UNITS
FOR PERMANENT RESIDENTS AND FOR
ANYONE THAT'S NOT AN
UNDERGRADUATE.
I THINK IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT TO
RECOGNIZE THAT WHAT HAPPENS IN
YOUR CAMPUS WILL AFFECT
EVERYONE.
THIRTY SIX RESIDENTS ARE DRIVEN
OUT OF YOUR CAMPUS NEIGHBORHOOD
.
NEW MARKET PRESSURES IN
NEIGHBORHOODS FURTHER OUT AND
DECREASE EVERYONE'S ABILITY TO
WALK TO CAMPUS IN DOWNTOWN.
I'M GRATEFUL FOR THIS PROPOSAL
REFLECTS REALLY THOUGHTFUL
CONSIDERATION OF RESIDENTS
EXPERIENCES THAT CONCERN
DOESN'T SEE THIS ISSUE AS A
DENSITY OR NOT BUT RATHER A WAY
TO GROW THOUGHTFULLY BASED ON
WHAT THIS PROPOSAL AND THE PLAN
IN GENERAL BE REDUCED TO
SIMPLISTIC GROWTH OR NOT THOSE
IN THE EXTREMES WATCH THE
FINANCES OF ISSUE TIME.
MOST OF US WANT GROWTH.
WE WANT TO BE THOUGHTFUL ABOUT
IT.
THANK THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SALAME
HODGEN
.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL SLUMMY FOR
UNE FIVE ONE SECOND STREET.
I'M SPEAKING TONIGHT IN
OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED
RESOLUTION.
I WANT TO SHARE MY PERSPECTIVE
AS THE OWNER OF A SINGLE FAMILY
HOME NEAR CAMPUS AND AS A
MOTHER OF A YOUNG CHILD.
YOUNG FAMILIES ARE NOT ALWAYS
REPRESENTED IN THESE PROCESSES
BECAUSE WELL LIFE WITH YOUNG
KIDS IS HECTIC AND MEETINGS
LIKE THIS TAKE PLACE AT
BEDTIME.
BUT ARGUMENTS AGAINST DENSITY
OFTEN CLAIM TO BE ABOUT
PROTECTING OUR KIDS.
IN A RECENT IN MY ARTICLE A
RESIDENT OF THE OLD FOURTH WORD
QUOTE ASK COMMISSIONERS' TO
THINK ABOUT HOW PARENTS WITH
CHILDREN WOULD FEEL ABOUT
HAVING A HOUSE NEXT DOOR
REPLACED WITH A MULTIUNIT
BUILDING.
HOW WOULD YOU FEEL ABOUT 12 NEW
STRANGERS LIVING NEXT DOOR?
HE SAID HE EXPRESSED A CONCERN
THAT THIS WOULD PUSH FAMILIES
OUT AND FURTHER LOWER SCHOOL
ENROLLMENT.
I MEAN I TO THIS NEIGHBOR HE'S
ENTITLED TO HIS VIEWS BUT WELL
I AM THE MOTHER OF A YOUNG
CHILD AND HOW DO I FEEL ABOUT
12 NEW STRANGERS LIVING NEXT
DOOR?
I FEEL GREAT ABOUT IT.
THAT'S TWELVE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
YOU FRIENDS KIDS CLOSE ENOUGH
THAT I DON'T HAVE TO GET INTO
MY CAR FOR A PLAY DATE.
THAT'S GRAD STUDENTS WHO CAN
EARN EXTRA CASH BABYSITTING FOR
US AND ITS NEW YOUNG COUPLES
WHO CAN WALK OVER FOR GAME
NIGHT OR DRINK AT THE VERY
LEAST IT'S TWELVE NEW NEIGHBORS
YOU DON'T HAVE TO DRIVE IN TO
WORK ANYMORE I CAN BUMP INTO AT
A COFFEE SHOP OR A RESTAURANT
THAT ARE DENSER NEIGHBORHOOD
AND SUPPORT AND KEEP IN
BUSINESS.
WHEN I THINK OF THREATS TO MY
CHILD, APARTMENT DWELLERS RANK
LOW ON THE LIST COMPARED TO
SPENDING LIFE IN AND AROUND
CARS AND OTHER PROBLEMS THAT
COME FROM LOW DENSITY CULTURE,
SOCIAL ISOLATION AND CLIMATE
CHANGE.
OUR SCHOOLS ARE FACING
DECLINING ENROLLMENT BECAUSE
OUR POPULATION IS AGING YOUNG
COUPLES AND FAMILIES ARE PRICED
AND PUSHED OUT OF THE CITY.
I GET THAT TOO MANY OF MY
NEIGHBORS ESPECIALLY LONGTIME
RESIDENTS CHANGE IS SCARY BUT
LIVING THINGS ARE SUPPOSED TO
GROW AND ARBOR'S LUCKY YOUNG
PEOPLE AND YOUNG FAMILIES WANT
TO LIVE HERE.
WE WANT TO KEEP THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS VIBRANT AND ALIVE
AND GROWING.
BUT YOU NEED TO LET US.
THAT'S WHY I'M ASKING THE
COUNCIL TO REJECT THE
RESOLUTION AND MOVE FORWARD ON
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN FOR MORE
HOUSING IN NABIL.
>> WE NEED IT BADLY IN THE
FUTURE IS WAITING.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
HAVING REACHED THE HAVING
REACHED THE TWENTY THIRD
SPEAKER AND EXCEEDED FORTY FIVE
MINUTES THE BALANCE OF PUBLIC
SPEAKERS WHO HAVE SIGNED UP
TWENTY FOUR THIRTY SEVEN WILL
BE HEARD AT PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOWN OTHER COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM COUNCIL
CASIMIRA
DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
CONTINUING WITH WHAT HAS BEEN A
TRADITION HERE FOR THE LAST FEW
MEETINGS FOR THOSE CLAIM THE
ANN ARBOR DISTRICT LIBRARY IS A
SUMMER GAME.
I WANT TO SHARE TODAY'S COUNCIL
SPECIFIC SUMMER GAME CODE TO
ELECTION DAY.
ANN ARBOR HAS A SPECIAL
ELECTION SCHEDULED FOR AUGUST
5TH.
POLLS WILL BE OPEN FROM SEVEN
A.M. TO EIGHT P.M. ON ELECTION
DAY.
BUT EARLY VOTING IS ALSO
AVAILABLE BEFORE ELECTION DAY
FROM WEDNESDAY, JULY 30TH TO
SUNDAY, AUGUST 3RD AT CITY HALL
FROM NINE TO FIVE P.M. AND THE
NEIGHBORHOOD DISTRICT LIBRARIES
EVERWOOD BRANCH FROM ELEVEN TO
SEVEN MALLETS FROM ELEVEN TO
SEVEN AND WEST GATE BRANCH FROM
ELEVEN TO SEVEN.
IT IS NO SURPRISE THAT I
CONTINUE TO ENCOURAGE RESIDENTS
TO EDUCATE THEMSELVES ABOUT
PROPOSALS AND B WHICH CAN
EMPOWER A NEW DOWNTOWN LIBRARY
WITHOUT RAISING TAXES.
>> FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL
.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS I REPRESENT THE
CITY COUNCIL ON JULY SEVEN
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE TO THE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION BOARD ROBIN HALL
AND BRIAN CHAMBERS TO THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
LAUREN DUNLAP THAT NEVER MOTION
PLEASE BY COUNCIL MCCONNELL
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE ON FAVOR
POSED THEY ARE APPROVED WE HAVE
BEFORE US THE CONSENT AGENDA
MOVE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
COUNCILMAN GHAZI EDWYN
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA KOTSENBURG IHR HECKMANN
THEN DENYER THANK YOU.
I DIDN'T WANT TO PULL THIS FOR
DISCUSSION BUT I DID WANT TO
HIGHLIGHT IT BECAUSE SEVERAL
CONSTITUENTS REACHED OUT ABOUT
THE 7TH STREET SEVENTH STREET
CITY STATE AGREEMENT S.
THIRTEEN WHICH IS A RESURFACING
PROJECT IN CONJUNCTION WITH
THAT A LOT OF FOLKS WHO LIVE
ALONG 7TH IN PARTICULAR ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT SPEEDING AND
NEEDED SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS AND
FOLKS THAT DIDN'T LOOK AT THE
STAFF MEMO, IT INCLUDED A
RESPONSE TO A QUESTION I ASKED
ABOUT WHAT WE CAN EXPECT FROM
COMING SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS WITH
OUR FEDERAL SAFE STREETS FOR
ALL GRANT AND THEY WILL HAPPEN
IN TWENTY TWENTY SIX.
THEY PLAN TO INSTALL INSTALL
RANGE OF QUICK BUILD TREATMENTS
ALONG THE CORRIDOR AND THESE
INCLUDE UPGRADING BUFFORD BIKE
LANES TO PROTECTED BIKE LANES
USING VERTICAL DELINEATOR
PAVEMENT PARKING ENHANCEMENTS
TO INCREASE VISIBILITY AND
SAFETY AND
IN CENTER LINE
TREATMENTS AT KEY INTERSECTIONS
SO THAT IS COMING.
THANKS FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON BRITISH.
THANK YOU.
I ALSO DON'T WANT TO PULL BUT I
JUST WANT TO MENTION SEVEN
BRIAN CAUGHT.
WE HAVE A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BEFORE US TONIGHT.
THIS WAS A SITE PLAN THAT FELL
UNDER THOSE PLANNING COMMISSION
JURISDICTION AND WAS
UNANIMOUSLY APPROVED BY THAT
BODY AND MAY 6TH.
BUT SOME FEATURES OF THE SITE
PLAN ARE WORTHY OF NOTE BECAUSE
THE PROJECT USED THE
SUSTAINABILITY EXCEPTION.
IT MET THE TERMS OF THAT
PROVISION REGARDING SOLAR
PANELS BUT IT IS DOING MUCH
MORE.
IT WILL BE ALL ELECTRIC USING
GEOTHERMAL HEATING, COOLING
ELECTRIC HEAT PUMPS AND OTHER
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES RELATED
TO BUILDING MATERIALS AND THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT ITSELF
WHICH WOULD BE APPROVED AS PART
OF THE CONSENT AGAIN UNLESS
ANYONE ACTUALLY PULLS IT
PROVIDES SIGNIFICANT
ENHANCEMENTS TO THE STREETSCAPE
ALONG NORTH FOURTH INCLUDING AN
EIGHT FOOT WIDE SIDEWALK AND A
SEVEN FOOT WIDE AMENITIES WHICH
WILL BE REALLY COOL AND WILL
CONTINUE THE IMPROVED DESIGN
THAT'S TO BE INSTALLED TO THE
SOUTH OF THE DUNBAR TOWER
PROJECT.
THERE'S ALSO A VOLUNTARY PARK
CONTRIBUTION WHICH MIGHT BE
INVESTED IN THE FARMERS MARKET
WEST PARK IT KNOW THE FARMER'S
MARKET, WEST PARK, WHEELER PARK
OR LIBERTY PLAZA.
THANK YOU COUNCILMAN FOR DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I ALSO WANTED VERY BRIEFLY
MENTIONED SEVEN THANK YOU TO
COUNCILMAN RADISH FOR LAYING
ALL THAT OUT.
THIS WAS JUST FOR LAYING ALL
THAT OUT.
THIS WAS JUST AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR ME AS SOMEBODY WHO SPENT A
LOT OF TIME IN COURT OVER THE
YEARS TO ONCE AGAIN RECOGNIZE
REALLY SOME OF THE WORK THAT'S
BEING DONE BY THE HOUSING
DEVELOPER IN THIS CASE TO
REALLY INVEST BACK INTO THE
COMMUNITY.
AND SO I THINK WE OFTEN HEAR
ABOUT THESE THESE EVIL
DEVELOPERS WHO DON'T CARE ABOUT
OUR TOWN.
BUT THE REALITY IS IN THIS CASE
THAT THE DEVELOPER AND BRONN
COURT IS ACTUALLY PART OF THE
REASON WHY THE GYM COMMUNITY
CENTER HAS A NEW HOME FOR THOSE
WHO WERE AWARE THE COMMUNITY
CENTER CLOSED ITS PHYSICAL
SPACE DURING COVID AND WHEN THE
DEVELOPER WANTED TO REDEVELOP
RANCOURT INTO HOUSING AND OUR
IN OUR KOREATOWN AREA THEY
REACHED OUT AND SAID HOW CAN WE
HELP TO SUPPORT AND CONTINUE TO
TO HELP THIS COMMUNITY THRIVE
AND AND HELP THEM CONNECT TO
THEIR THEIR NEW LOCATION.
THEY'RE OPENED UP ON MAIN
STREET.
I ACTUALLY JUST SPOKE TO
SOMEONE AFFILIATED AGAIN THIS
WEEK WHERE THEY'RE HOPING TO
FIND WAYS TO PRESERVE THE THE
EXISTING RANCOURT SIGN AND
THINGS LIKE THAT TO CONTINUE TO
NOD TO THE HISTORY AND THE
COMMUNITY THAT EXISTED THERE.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO THANK
THEM FOR THEIR THOUGHTFULNESS
AS THEY CONTINUE TO PROVIDE NEW
LIFE TO THIS SPACE AS THEY
ACKNOWLEDGE THE PAST THAT WAS
THERE AS WELL.
CONSERVER WATSON I WANTED TO
NOTE BRIEFLY NINE THE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED
PROHIBITED RESTRICTIVE
COVENANTS ON HANDSON IN EACH
AREA.
THIS CAME UP IN LAST MONTH'S
PARKS COMMISSION BUT WHEN CITY
STAFF WAS LOOKING TO CONFIRM A
DONATION OF PROPERTY ADJACENT
TO HANDSON NATURE AREA, THEY
FOUND OUT THAT THAT PROPERTY
ACTUALLY ORIGINALLY HAD A DEED
RESTRICTING IT.
I BELIEVE RESTRICTING USE BY
AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND I THINK
OTHER MINORITIES AS WELL AND
STAFF IN THE ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
WORKED TO TO REMOVE THIS
RESTRICTION.
I MEAN IT'S A ALTHOUGH YOU
KNOW, OBVIOUSLY IT WAS NOT
BEING ENFORCED.
IT WAS IT'S A MOVE TO AFFIRM
OUR VALUES AND TO GET RID
OF THESE THESE RESTRICTIONS
THAT ARE ALL TO COMMON.
AND I ALSO WANTED TO POINT OUT
THAT ITS STAFF AND THE
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE KIND
OF FOLLOWING SUIT WITH SOME
EFFORTS OF RESIDENTS THROUGH
JUSTICE INDEED TO MAP
RESTRICTIVE RACIAL COVENANTS ON
ALL PROPERTY IN WASHTENAW
COUNTY AND IN THE CITY
OF BANABA.
SO ONCE AGAIN I'M GRATEFUL THAT
WE'RE ACTING TO UNDO SOME
OF THIS WRONGFUL HISTORY
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR OR
OPPOSE THE CONSENT AGENDA IS
APPROVED WITH EIGHT COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THAT SATISFIED THE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO THE
EIGHT NINE AND TWENTY ONE.
>> WE NOW COME TO A SET
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS, PUBLIC
HEARINGS ARE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT
MATTER OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO
SPEAK AT A PUBLIC HEARING ONE
NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST
RELATE TO THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT
MATTER OF THE PUBLIC HEARING
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO WHICH THE
PUBLIC HEARING RELATES TO
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
30 SECONDS.
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
TO EIGHT TO FIVE UP TO EIGHT
THREE FIVE TO NINE POINT FOUR
OR FIVE TWO NINE SIX.
I'VE GOT TWO NINE SEVEN AND
FIVE TO NINE 11 OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
TITLE FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF INNER HARBOR IS ANYONE
IN HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> I THANK HIM FOR TAKING OUR
SECOND WORD.
I ASSUME THIS IS A PUBLIC
HEARING ABOUT THE UDC CHANGES
THAT WOULD ELIMINATE CYPRIEN
PUBLIC HEARINGS THEY'LL BE
REPLACED WITH PUBLIC COMMENT
THAT MEANS REDUCING THE 15 DAY
ADVANCE NOTICE TO FOUR DAYS AT
MOST MORE ABOUT THAT LATER.
THERE ARE TWO REASONS FOR THIS
CHANGE THAT I'VE HEARD.
FIRST WILL SPEED UP MY PLAN
REVIEW THAT'S TRUE BY A FEW
WEEKS BUT THIS IS NOT NOW A BIG
BOTTLENECK.
SECOND REASON A LIMITING PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR BY RIGHTSIDE PLANS
WILL ACTUALLY BENEFIT THE
PUBLIC BECAUSE WE CAN'T CHANGE
PROJECTS THAT MIEKO I OFTEN
HEAR THIS WE DON'T WANT THE
PUBLIC TO COME AND SPEAK AND
THEN LEAVE FEELING FRUSTRATED
UNHAPPY WHEN THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS NO DISCRETION
UNQUOTE.
THE NOTION THAT THIS CHANGE
WILL HELP US UNDERSTAND THE
PROCESS IS A VERY CONDESCENDING
TO ME NEIGHBORHOOD GROUPS IN MY
EXPERIENCE USUALLY KNOW FAR
MORE ABOUT A PROJECT THAN
COMMISSION OR COUNCIL.
THEY ALSO UNDERSTAND THE
PROCESS.
I REJECT THE IDEA THAT WE COME
UP HERE AND JUST EVENT WHEN
THERE'S NOTHING YOU WERE
PLANNING COMMISSION CAN DO
ABOUT ANYTHING AND THEN WE
LEAVE FRUSTRATED AND ANGRY.
>> THAT'S A CARICATURE.
MOST COMMENTS ARE THOUGHTFUL,
NOT EMOTIONAL AND MANY
DEVELOPERS VALUE THE GOODWILL
OF THE PUBLIC AND WILL OFTEN
CHANGE ASPECTS OF THEIR DRIVE
BY RIGHTSIDE PLANS TO MEET
PUBLIC CONCERNS ESPECIALLY WHEN
THEY'RE AMPLIFIED BY COMMISSION
BUT FOR DAYS IS NOT ENOUGH
NOTICE FOR US TO RESEARCH THESE
PLANS.
I WORK MANY WEEKENDS PERSONALLY
AND PUBLIC COMMENT IS IMPORTANT
REGARDLESS.
THAT'S BECAUSE THE UDC IS NOT A
COMPLETE EXPRESSION OF THE
PUBLIC'S WISHES AROUND
DEVELOPMENT.
IT FALLS SHORT ESPECIALLY IN
THE AREAS OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
>> WE SHOULD DEMAND THAT EVERY
FIVE DEVELOPMENT BETTER IN
THESE AREAS.
SO IN TERMS OF PUBLIC COMMENT I
MAKE NO DISTINCTION BETWEEN
DISCRETIONARY AND BY RIGHT.
THERE SHOULD BE PUBLIC HEARINGS
FOR BOTH.
I KNOW ABOUT THE FOUR DAYS
NOTICE THAT WON'T BE IN THE UDC
OR IN THE PLANNING COMMISSION
BYLAWS.
IT WILL BE UP TO PLANNING STAFF
MEETINGS THAT ONLY REQUIRES
OF THE GENDERS TWO HOURS BEFORE
THE MEETING THE PLANNING
COMMISSION BYLAWS TO SPECIFY
THE FRIDAY BEFORE THE TUESDAY
OF THE MEETING BUT ONLY IF
FEASIBLE.
SO EVEN THE FOUR DAYS I
REQUESTED FINALLY KNOW THAT WE
WILL LOSE THE COUNCIL SITE
PLANNING PUBLIC HEARING FOR PD
PD SITE PLANS WE STILL HAVE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE REZONING
SO GOING FORWARD WE WILL LOSE
ONE MORE OPPORTUNITY THAT WE
CURRENTLY HAVE REPUBLICAN IN
SHORT I'M PRETTY CONFIDENT THIS
WILL GO FORWARD TONIGHT BUT I
THINK THE ARGUMENTS FOR IT ARE
FLAWED AND I WOULD PREFER TO
KEEP THE PRESENT THE PRESENT
SYSTEM.
THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT
THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
>> IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
IN FIVE THREE FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT STATISTIC
FROM YOUR PHONE?
GO AHEAD.
>> THANK YOU FOR CALLING FROM
MOTOWN TOWN IN ANN ARBOR.
I'D LIKE TO AGREE WITH A LOT
OF WHAT INGABIRE JUST SAID AND
MY EXPERIENCE AS A SUBDIVISION
DEVELOPER IN MANY COMMUNITIES
WHERE WE HAD TO APPEAR BEFORE
PLANNING COMMISSION CITY
COUNCIL WE DID GET GOOD INPUT
FROM THE PUBLIC AT COMMENTS
MADE A LOT OF THINGS WE DID NOT
HAVE TO CHANGE BUT MADE CHANGES
AND COMMITMENTS THE NIGHT
OF THOSE MEETINGS IN RESPONSE
TO SOME PRETTY GOOD IDEAS FROM
CONSTITUENTS.
SO I THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF VALUE AND HAVING PEOPLE
COMMENT ON PROJECTS WE'RE WELL
KNOWN AS A WELL-EDUCATED
COMMUNITY.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF GOOD IDEAS
OUT THERE AND THERE IS
ABSOLUTELY NO HARM IN HAVING
THOSE IDEAS PRESENTED TO A
DEVELOPER WHO CAN OPTIONALLY
EVEN IT'S NOT REQUIRED.
I THINK DENHA A PROJECT THAT
MAKE IT EVEN BETTER SO PLEASE
RECONSIDER THIS AGAIN IN TERMS
OF THE NOTICE MORE NOTICE IS
BETTER SO THAT PEOPLE KNOW
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THEIR CITY.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
VERY KNOW HAVE ANY
OTHER CALLERS ON ZOM
SEE NO ONE
THIS PUBLIC HEARINGS RIGHT ON
17TH STREET.
>> I WOULD JUST ENCOURAGE
EVERYBODY TO GO TO ENGAGE DOT
GOV ENGAGE TO GOV ENGAGE
WEBSITE.
IT'S A GREAT NEW WEBSITE FROM
THE CITY
HAS LOTS
OF INFORMATION ABOUT NEW
PROJECTS.
THERE'S AN EMAIL SIGN UP SO YOU
CAN GET AUTOMATIC NOTIFICATIONS
WHEN THERE'S NEW PROJECTS IN
YOUR CITY SO YOU CAN STAY
ENGAGED AND CONTINUE TO SEND
PUBLIC COMMENT TO DEVELOPERS OR
TO YOUR COUNCIL MEMBERS.
THANK YOU.
THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLIC HEARING NO TO
AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION
FIVE TO EIGHT FOUR OF CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOP A
CODE OF TITLE FIVE.
>> IS IT ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC
?
THANK YOU MR. CHAIRMAN.
KENT GARBER AGAIN, AS I
UNDERSTAND IT THIS UDC CHANGE
MEANS THAT DEVELOPERS FOR
SO-CALLED BUY PROJECTS WILL NO
LONGER BE REQUIRED TO HAVE THIS
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION MEETING
.
THEY WILL OFFER SO-CALLED
DISCRETIONARY PROJECTS FOR
EXAMPLE REZONING MA'AM MA'AM
.
>> THE BIG CHANGE THERE IS THAT
THE TIMING OF THE MEETING WILL
BE MOVED UP FROM BRAINPAN PLAN
TO MISSION UP TO FORTY FIVE
DAYS OF SUBMISSION STAFF
ORIGINALLY APPROACHED FIFTY UP
TO 15 DAYS PRIOR TO PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THE COMMISSION PUSHED BACK
AGAINST THIS RIGHTLY POINTING
THAT THAT WOULD BE TOO LATE FOR
ANY MAJOR PLANNED CHANGES FOR
FORTY FIVE DAYS SUBMISSION IS
BETTER TIMING BECAUSE ITS
EARLIER WHETHER THAT'S BETTER
THAN PRETTY SLOW MOTION IS
DEBATABLE BUT I'M OK WITH THE
NEW TIMING.
WHAT I'M NOT OK WITH IS
EXEMPTING MY RIGHT PROJECTS
FROM HOLDING THESE MEETINGS
JUST BECAUSE OF PLANNING
STAFF'S JUDGMENT CONFORMS TO
THE UDC DOES NOT CHANGE THE
NEED THE VALUE OF PUBLIC INPUT
BECAUSE I MENTIONED EARLIER THE
UDC IS NOT A COMPLETE
EXPRESSION OF THE COMMUNITY'S
WISHES AROUND DEVELOPMENT AND
FALLS SHORT ESPECIALLY IN THE
AREAS OF AFFORDABILITY AND AND
SUSTAINABILITY.
WHY ARE WE TREATING
DISCRETIONARY AND BIRI PROJECTS
DIFFERENTLY IN TERMS OF PUBLIC
PARTICIPATE?
DACIAN SHOULD REQUIRE A
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING NOT JUST
DISCRETIONARY PROJECTS FOR THAT
REASON I DON'T SUPPORT THIS
AMENDMENT.
I AM OK WITH THE NEW TIMING
OF THE MEETING BUT NOT WITH THE
ELIMINATION OF COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION MEETINGS FOR
SO-CALLED BI RIGHT
DEVELOPMENTS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC?
>> IS THERE WHAT I MIND WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I DON'T WANT ONLINE FOR THIS
HEARING
SAY NO ON THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER THREE IN
NORDEN'S TO AMEND THE ZONING
MAP SECTION FIVE TATENDA TO
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE OF THE
CITY CODE FIVE POINT NINE ACRES
DBP TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO R FOR
E WITH CONDITIONS MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TWO FIVE
FIVE THREE SEVEN ONE ZA'ATAR
ROAD AND TWO ONE EIGHT ZERO ANN
ARBOR SALEEN ROAD ROBERTSON
HOMES REZONING.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
>> HELLO.
I'M JUST SPEAKING TO SAY THAT
AS SOMEONE WHO DRIVES THROUGH
THAT INTERSECTION OF CYO CHURCH
AND ANN ARBOR SLANE BASICALLY
EVERY DAY I SUPPORT THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
THERE'S NOT REALLY A WHOLE LOT
THERE CURRENTLY AND I'M ALSO
GLAD TO SEE THE CITY FILLING IN
ANOTHER TOWNSHIP ISLAND.
IT WOULD BE COOL IF THIS
INCLUDED SOME SORT OF RETAIL
AND MAYBE EVEN DENSER HOUSING
BUT SOMETHING THAT IS MUCH
BETTER NOTHING.
>> THANK YOU
.
MY NAME'S TIM CARROLL, RESIDENT
OF ARDAVAN DRIVE WARD FOR I
HAVE LITTLE TO ADD TO WHAT
WE'VE FILED IN WRITING.
YOU HAVE A PETITION SIGNED BY
EVERYBODY ON AUDOBON DRIVE.
I MEAN EVERYBODY MOST OF MERIT
DRIVE.
YOU HAVE A PETITION THAT'S
SIGNED BY THE ONLY RESIDENT TO
THE EAST SIDE OF THIS PARTIAL.
ALL WE CAN ASK IS THAT BEFORE
YOU DECIDE THIS MATTER WHICH
DARN IMPORTANT TO US OF COURSE
AS YOU READ CAREFULLY I GIVE
GOOD CONSIDERATION OF WHAT WE
HAVE FILED.
I HAVE LITTLE MORE TO SAY ABOUT
THAT.
MY GUT TELLS ME THOUGH THAT
WHAT IS PROPOSED BY ROBERTS AND
IS EXACTLY THE SORT OF PROPOSAL
AND THE PLANNING COMMISSION'S
DECISION IS EXACTLY WHY THIS
COUNCIL ADOPTED THE RESOLUTION
NOT LONG AGO IMPOSING OR ASKING
FOR A THIRTY FIVE FOOT LIMIT.
I THINK THIS IS EXACTLY THIS IS
A PRIME EXAMPLE OF WHY WE NEED
SUCH A LIMIT.
THAT'S ALL I HAVE.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I DON'T SEE ANY CALLERS ON LINE
FOR THIS HEARING
SEE NO ONE.
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
PUBLICLY NO FOR RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE ROBERTSON HOMES
A.K.A. SEVENTY FIVE S MAIN SITE
PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
TWO FIVE FIVE THREE ONE FIVE
THREE SEVEN ONE ZERO CHURCH
ROAD TWO ONE EIGHT ZERO AND
BRAZILIAN ROAD.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC
?
THANK YOU AGAIN MR. TAYLOR CAN
GARBER SECOND WORD I WANT TO
COMMEND ROBERTSON BROTHERS FOR
THE FACT THAT THE SEVENTY FIVE
UNIT DEVELOPMENT WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIC WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF GAS BACKUP GENERATOR.
I'M ASSUMING THAT ALSO INCLUDES
INDUCTION STOVES AND OVENS.
I THINK THIS IS AN EXCELLENT
EXAMPLE.
SO I WANT TO PERSONALLY THANK
MR. LOFGREN WHO IS IN THE
AUDIENCE FOR THAT.
THERE'S BEEN LONG DISCUSSIONS
AROUND ROBERTSON BROTHERS
VILLAGE PROJECT WHICH AS I
UNDERSTAND IT IS ON HOLD THAT
ONE STILL CONTAINS SEVERAL
HUNDRED UNITS THAT HAVE BEEN
APPROVED WITH GAS HEAT AND I
HOPE THAT ROBERTSON BROTHERS
YOU MAKES THIS PROJECT TONIGHT
THE RULE AND IF IT DOES GO
FORWARD WITH THE VILLAGE THAT
THAT PROJECT ALSO WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIC.
WELL, I COMMEND THE DEVELOPER.
I DON'T WANT TO LET HIM
COMPLETELY OFF THE HOOK.
I WOULD PREFER TO SEE ROOFTOP
SOLAR THESE UNITS AND INSTEAD
OF THE DECKS THAT ARE CURRENTLY
BEING PLANNED.
BUT OTHER THAN THAT I'M REALLY
PLEASED AND I LOOK FORWARD TO
FUTURE DIALOG WITH ROBERTSON
BROTHERS.
>> THANK YOU
.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
IS IS THERE
ANYONE ONLINE I'D LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING THERE WE
DO HAVE A CALLER ON LINE CALL
HER THE PHONE NUMBER AND FIVE
THREE FOUR GO AHEAD.
>> THANK YOU.
THIS ACCOUNT STOLLBERG AGAIN I
WOULD ALSO LIKE TO COMMEND
ROBERTSON BROTHERS ON THE ALL
ELECTRIC PROJECT.
I THINK THAT'S VERY IMPORTANT.
I DID LIKE SOME OF THE ASPECTS
OF THE OTHER ROBERTSON BROTHERS
PROJECT THAT THEY INCLUDED A
LOT OF DIFFERENT MIXES
OF HOUSING TYPES.
BUT MR. GORBACHEV, THAT THEY
COULD USE A LITTLE BIT MORE IN
THE SUSTAINABILITY OF FEATURES
FIVE OTHER DEVELOPMENT BUT FOR
HERE I'D LIKE TO COMMEND THEM
FOR IT.
>> LOOKING AT THE SITE PLAN, I
LOOK AT THESE THREE STORY UNITS
AND THE AT THE MIDPOINT OF THE
PEAK IS THIRTY NINE FEET AND IT
LOOKS LIKE IF YOU GO ALL THE
WAY TO THE TOP OF THE PEAK IF
I'M READING THE PLAN RIGHT
THAT'S FORTY FOUR FEET SO WE
KNOW I COMPARING DIFFERENT
BUILDING AN HOUR FOR EACH EVEN
TALLER WOULD BE ALLOWED IN
TERMS OF COMPARING THIS TO
OTHER THINGS I WANT TO TAP OUT
OF THIRTY FEET BUT YOU PUT THE
BONUS 30 PERCENT IN FOR
ELECTRIFICATION AND YOU GET
THIRTY NINE FEET SO I'M TRYING
TO COMPARE APPLES TO ORANGES A
LITTLE BIT BUT IF WE LOOK AT
THE FUTURE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
OF WHAT IT WOULD ALLOW
ESPECIALLY GROWING IN THE
RESOLUTION THAT YOU PUT IN
TONIGHT SOMEBODY COULD PUT A
POT OF THREE OF THE ROBERTSON
BROTHERS UNITS ON ONE BLOCK AND
ANOTHER THREE ON THE LOT NEXT
DOOR AND HAVE SIX CONDOS FOR
HALF A MILLION DOLLARS AT PEAK
AVERAGE OF THIRTY NINE FEET IN
ANY WHEN FEE NEIGHBORHOOD
ACROSS THE WHOLE CITY.
SO I THINK THIS IS WORTH
APPROVING TONIGHT BUT I THINK
YOU NEED TO CONSIDER THE
RAMIFICATIONS OF A SIMILAR
PRODUCT ELSEWHERE AFTER A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN INCLUDES
YOUR NEW RESOLUTION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
ALL THE PHONE NUMBER
AND AGAIN FIVE THREE FOUR.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
SORRY
ALEX LOWE DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
>> GO AHEAD I THIS IS ALEX TCP
IP THROUGH PITTSVILLE.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT I
THINK THAT THIS IS THE BEST
EXAMPLE OF A DEVELOPMENT THAT
SHOULD UNDER THE NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN B BY RIGHTS
CITYWIDE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
VERY I DON'T HAVE ANY
OTHER CALLERS ON THE LINE WITH
THEIR HANDS UP
C NO IN THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER FIVE RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE AMENDMENT ONE FOR
THE BROADWAY PARK REDEVELOPMENT
BROWNFIELD'S PLAN IS THERE
ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
GOOD EVENING, RICH.
FINE, DWAYNE COURT I'M IN WARD
FIVE.
I'M HERE REPRESENTING YARBER
CHAPTER OF CITIZENS CLIMATE
LOBBY.
WE'RE WONDERING WHETHER A
DEVELOPER OF BROADWAY PARK IS
PLANNING TO USE FOSSIL GAS FOR
SPACE AND WATER HEATING OR IF
INSTEAD THEY'RE GOING TO BE
USING HIGH EFFICIENCY ALL
ELECTRIC EQUIPMENT AND THUS
MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE
EIGHT TO ZERO CARBON NEUTRALITY
PLAN IN REVIEWING THE SITE
PLANS WE SEE MENTION
OF INSTALLING SOLAR OF USING
TES GREEN POWER PLAN PROGRAM
RECEIVING CERTIFICATION BUT WE
COULDN'T FIND ANY STATEMENT
REGARDING WHETHER THEY WILL BE
USING ELECTRICITY FOR SPACE AND
WATER HEATING.
THE LACK OF THIS TYPE OF DETAIL
TYPICALLY MEANS THAT THEY'RE
USING GAS SO WE'RE REQUESTING
THAT COUNCIL ASK ROXBURY WHAT
FUEL THEY'LL BE USING AND IF
ROXBURY IS PLANNING ON GAS WE
ASK THAT COUNCIL ENCOURAGE THEM
TO SHIFT TO ALL ELECTRIC.
IF THIS DEVELOPMENT HAD
ORIGINALLY BEEN PLANNED TO USE
FOSSIL GAS, ANY TECHNICAL OR
ECONOMIC REASONING THAT WAS
USED TO DO THAT BACK IN TWENTY
TWENTY IT'S UNLIKELY TO APPLY
ANY MORE JUST TAKING A LOOK AT
RECENT PROPOSALS APPROVED FOR
DEVELOPMENT OVER THE LAST 12
MONTHS AMONG MULTIFORM AND
MIXED USE NEW DEVELOPMENTS THAT
ARE OF ANY DECENT SIZE MORE
THAN SIX UNITS THAT HAVE BEEN
EITHER PROPOSED OR BEEN
APPROVED 15 OUT OF 16 ARE ALL
ELECTRIC.
THAT'S A HECK OF AN AVERAGE AND
THAT IS SOMETHING TO BE PROUD
OF AND THERE IS THERE ARE SOME
SLIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
THERE'S A MINOR EXCEPTION FOR
COOKING WITH GAS OF COURSE THE
USE OF GAS FOR EMERGENCY BACKUP
POWER DOES NOT COUNT TOWARDS
BEING ALL ELECTRIC.
THE ONE DEVELOPMENT THAT'S OUT
THERE, THE ONE OUT OF THE
SIXTEEN IT'S NOT ALL ELECTRIC
AT TWENTY NINE HUNDRED SOUTH
MAIN STILL HAS ALL OF THE
LIVING UNITS IS ALL ELECTRIC
ALTHOUGH THE COMMON AREAS ARE
NOT.
BUT THAT MEANS THAT IN THE LAST
SIX TO 18 MONTHS 16 OUT OF SIX
DEVELOPMENTS ARE ESSENTIALLY
ALL ELECTRIC AT LEAST FOR THE
LIVING UNITS.
IT'S WORTH NOTING TO THAT THIS
LIST INCLUDES TWO DEVELOPMENT
THAT YOU'RE APPROVING TONIGHT
AT ROBERTSON HOME SEVENTY
SEVENTY FIVE S MAIN BROAD
CORPORAN CAUGHT AMONG THESE
THERE IS PODS BY RIGHTS HEIGHT
EXCEPTIONS NOT HEIGHT
EXCEPTION.
THANK SO AGAIN WE JUST ASK
COUNCIL TO ASK THE DEVELOPER
AND ENCOURAGE THEM TO GO ALL
ELECTRIC.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK
KENT GARBER AGAIN.
>> YOU HAVE BROUGHT A VISUAL
AID THIS TIME I HAD THE SAME
QUESTION AS MR. FINE FOR THE
DEVELOPER GAPS IN THE
DEVELOPMENT OF YOUR PLAN IS
HERE BECAUSE THE ROXBURY GROUP
AND ITS ASSOCIATED NONPROFIT
HAVE OBTAINED A LOT OF STATE
FUNDING IN RECENT YEARS SOME
OF WHICH I UNDERSTAND IT HAVE
SPENT ON SITE WORK WE WERE
SUPPOSED TO FUND THROUGH THE
ORIGINAL BROWNFIELD PLAN.
SO HERE'S MY HERE'S THE
ORIGINAL KIFF ON SEVENTEEN
POINT THREE MILLION BECAUSE
ROXBURY ALREADY SPENT SOME
OF THE SOME THAT FROM STATE
FUNDS IT COULD HAVE COME BACK
WITH A SMALLER PLAN BUT IT
CHOSE TO ASK FOR THE SAME
SEVENTEEN POINT THREE MILLION.
>> HERE'S THE DIFFERENCE.
THE FIRST PLAN WAS FIFTY FOUR
PERCENT ENVIRONMENT COST FORTY
SIX PERCENT NOT ENVIRONMENTAL
THE CITY CAP NOT ENVIRONMENTAL
AT EIGHT MILLION.
TONIGHT'S PLAN IS THIRTY SIX
PERCENT ENVIRONMENTAL SIXTY
FOUR PERCENT NON ENVIRONMENTAL
THINGS LIKE THE STREET
CONSTRUCTION IN THE PARKING
DECK NO CAP ROXBURY'S SHAKING
REIMBURSEMENT FOR EIGHT HUNDRED
AND THIRTY EIGHT THOUSAND
DOLLARS IN LOAN INTEREST
RESEARCH COSTS AND INTEREST
RATES.
YES THE PANDEMIC AND INFLATION
WERE SETBACKS FOR THEM BUT ALL
DEVELOPERS TAKE RISKS AND TAX
PAYERS AREN'T OBLIGATED TO
MITIGATE THE NEGATIVE
CONSEQUENCES OF THOSE RISKS AND
THE PROJECT MAY BE TO
CONSERVANCY HAS RECEIVED A LOT
OF STATE FUNDING.
THE CITY WILL BE DOING PRETTY
LARGE BABY WITH THIS PLANNED
AMENDMENT.
WITHOUT IT WE WOULD HAVE TO
COME BACK WITH A SMALLER PLAN
FOR SEVERAL MILLION DOLLARS
LESS IN TAXPAYER REIMBURSEMENT
BECAUSE HAD ALREADY SPENT THOSE
ALREADY SPENT THOSE DOLLARS
FROM THE STATE COFFERS OVERALL
THIS IS A GOOD PROJECT.
IT REMOVES OUR CARBON POLLUTION
AT THE SITE IT ADDS BETWEEN
NINE NINETY SIX ONE HUNDRED
EIGHTEEN UNITS OF HOUSING
AVERAGED 15 FOR 15 PERCENT
OF THESE MUST BE AFFORDABLE
UNDER PUDI AND BROWNFIELD
POLICY AND I THINK ROXBURY'S
PROPOSING TWENTY TWO AFFORDABLE
UNITS.
THERE WOULD BE PROBABLY
COMMUNITIES ALONG THE RIVER THE
DRAWBACK HERE, AS MR. FINE
SAID, IS THAT ALL THE BUILDINGS
WILL AS FAR AS WE KNOW BE
DECIPHERABLE HOUSE.
>> THIS GOES AGAINST THE CITY'S
H0 CLIMATE ACTION PLAN SO WE
SHOULD GET SOMETHING IN RETURN
FOR APPROVING THIS NEW PLAN.
IN MY OPINION ROXBURY SHOULD
FULLY ELECTRIFY THE PROJECT AND
NOT JUST THE RESIDENTIAL
PROGRAM, THE HOTEL, THE RETAIL,
THE VERY WHAT WOULD YOU DO FOR
MORE AFFORDABLE HOUSING BOTH.
I WANTED TO RAISE THIS ISSUE
EARLIER WITH THE DEVELOPER BUT
WHEN I APPROACHED MR. DORIA
OUTSIDE WASHINGTON COUNTY
BROWNFIELD REDEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY MEETING LAST
OCTOBER , HE TOLD ME HE WOULD
NOT MEET WITH ME AND YOU WERE
NOT RESPONDING TO MY EMAILS.
HE WOULD ONLY REACT TO ME IN
PUBLIC MEETINGS LIKE THIS ONE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
I DON'T SEE ANYONE ONLINE WITH
THEIR HAND UP FOR THIS MEETING
OR THIS HEARING SORRY
.
I SEE NO ONE THIS PUBLIC
HEARINGS ARE CLOSED.
WE HAVE TO FORCE THE REGULAR
MEETING MINUTES OF JULY SEVEN.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE THEY HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE
MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED BE1 AN ORDINANCE TO
AMEND SECTION FIVE NOT TO EIGHT
TO FIVE TO THREE FIVE TWO NINE
EIGHT FOUR FIVE TWO NINE SIX
FIVE EIGHT TWO NINE SEVEN AND
FIVE GOT TO NINE TEN ELEVEN
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
OF INNER HARBOR MOVED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DICH SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER GOZI EDWYN
DISCUSSION PLEASE A B1 BRITISH
THANK YOU MAYOR.
SO JUST SO THERE'S NO CONFUSION
THERE ARE TWO WAYS TO GIVE
COMMENTS ON PROJECTS BEFORE
THEY REACH CITY COUNCIL.
THAT'S THROUGH PUBLIC HEARINGS
HELD AT THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION AND COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION MEETINGS HELD BY
DEVELOPERS.
THIS AMENDMENT CONCERNS PUBLIC
HEARINGS HELD AT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION, THE COMMISSION AND
COUNCIL VALUE PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION AND WE VALUE THE
TIME IT TAKES PEOPLE TO OFFER
IT.
MANY SITE PLANS REVIEWED BY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DO NOT
INVOLVE DISCRETION.
THE COMMISSION APPLIES CRITERIA
AND IF THE CRITERIA ARE MET THE
PROJECT HAS TO BE APPROVED.
AS YOU HEARD EARLIER, THIS
AMENDMENT WOULD MEAN THAT WE NO
LONGER REQUIRE PUBLIC HEARINGS
BEFORE THESE IN PART BECAUSE
THIS DOES SLOW DOWN THE
PROCESS.
IT'S A TWO WEEK ADVANCED NOTICE
.
YOU HAVE TO KNOW THAT THE
PROJECT IS READY SO THAT WHEN
YOU MAKE THE
TWO WEEK ADVANCE
NOTICE YOU'RE NOT GOING TO HAVE
TO CANCEL THAT PUBLIC HEARING.
AND SO IT'S ACTUALLY MORE THAN
TWO WEEKS TIME THAT IT CAN ADD
TO THE PROCESS.
MOREOVER, I DON'T MEAN ANY I
HONESTLY DON'T MEAN ANY
DISPARAGEMENT IN MAKING THIS
REMARK BUT PEOPLE CAN GET
FRUSTRATED WHEN THEY COME AND
TAKE THE TIME TO SPEAK TO A
PUBLIC HEARING AND THE
COMMISSION SAYS SORRY, WE
ACTUALLY CAN'T MAKE ANY CHANGES
TO THIS PLAN.
SO ANYWAY BECAUSE WE HAVE NO
LEGAL AUTHORITY TO DO SO.
SO WHAT THIS AMENDMENT DOES IS
IT RESERVES PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR
DECISIONS ON PROJECTS AND
CHANGES TO THE DEVELOPMENT
CODE THAT INVOLVE DISCRETION.
THOSE ARE REZONING PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENTS, SPECIAL EXCEPTION
NEWS PROJECTS AND AMENDMENTS TO
THE ZONING CODE THAT'S GOING TO
BE RELEVANT IN THE FUTURE WHEN
WE ZONE THE PLAN.
>> UM, SO THESE WILL THERE
WOULD BE NOTICE OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS PUBLISHED 15 DAYS
PRIOR TO THE MEETING AND SAID
TO PROPERTY OWNERS DOCUMENTS
AND NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATIONS
WITHIN 300 FEET NOW PUBLIC
COMMENT WILL BE PROVIDED FOR
SITE PLANS THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES WITHOUT
SETTING THEM ALONG TO COUNCIL.
THE THE PLANNING COMMISSION IS
EXPLORING BYLAWS AND OTHER
CHANGES TO PROVIDE AS MUCH
ADVANCE NOTICE AS POSSIBLE AND
ACTUALLY PLANNING COMMISSION
MAY WANT DIRECTION FROM US
COUNCIL ON WHAT WE HAD IN MIND
FOR PUBLIC COMMENT FOR THIS
SITE PLANS WAS IT AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING OR DID WE
THINK DESIGNATED COMMENT
PERIODS BEFORE A SITE PLAN SO
THAT YOU COULD GATHER ALL THE
COMMENTS TOGETHER ON THE SAME
SUBJECT MATTER AND PEOPLE CAN
KIND OF WORK TOGETHER IN THE
WAYS THAT THE PUBLIC US SO
THAT'S ALL I HAVE TO SAY.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OF B1
ALVERA WELL OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED B TO AN AUDIENCE AMEND
SECTION FIVE THAT 284 OF OF
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
MOVE BY DENHA SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER.
>> THIS DISCUSSION SHOULD BE TO
COUNCIL REDISH SO I KNOW THAT
LIKE THE ONE WE'VE SPOKEN ABOUT
THIS BEFORE SO I WILL JUST BE
VERY QUICK.
THESE ARE THE MEETINGS HELD BY
DEVELOPERS AND AS YOU HEARD
THESE COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
MEETINGS WILL NEED TO HAPPEN
WITHIN 45 DAYS AFTER THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT STAFF
ACCEPTS AN APPLICATION FOR
STAFF REVIEW.
THEY ARE HAPPENING PRE
SUBMITTAL RIGHT NOW AND IS
COUNCILMAN MEMBER DENHA
MENTIONED THE LAST TIME WE
TALKED ABOUT THIS THAT THIS
CHANGE WILL HELP US AVOID BEING
CONTACTED FROM COMMUNITY
MEMBERS HAVE ATTENDED THOSE
MEETINGS BEFORE.
THERE'S EVEN ANYTHING IN STREAM
AND WE REALLY DON'T KNOW THEY
KNOW MORE ABOUT THE PROJECT
THAN WE SO THERE IS IT WILL
CALIBRATE THE COMMUNITY MEETING
WITH THE STAFF TECHNICAL REVIEW
AND AGAIN THESE WILL ONLY
HAPPEN WHEN A PROJECT REQUIRES
A PUBLIC HEARING ALTHOUGH
NOTICE MUST BE MADE WHEN A SITE
PLAN APPLICATION IS MADE AND
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
MEETINGS WILL ALSO BE
PUBLICIZED ON A TO ENGAGE WHICH
GREATLY EXTENDS THE
NOTIFICATION BEYOND THE
IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO I HOPE YOUR SUPPORT I'M
GOING TO SUPPORT THIS ONE TO
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
EMBRAER THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO BRIEFLY CONNECT
THIS AND THE PREVIOUS AGENDA
ITEM TO OUR ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT RESOLUTIONS THAT WE
PASSED LAST YEAR AS A COUNCIL
AND THIS WAS PART OF OUR REPORT
THAT REALLY LOOKED AT TOP TO
BOTTOM OUR PROCESSES THROUGHOUT
THE CITY THAT ARE CAUSING
HOUSING COSTS TO RISE AND ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT WE FOUND IS
THERE ARE ELEMENTS OF OUR
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS THAT HAVE BEEN SORT
OF BUILT UP OVER TIME LAYERS
ADDED THAT AREN'T REALLY ADDING
VALUE TO THE PROCESS AND ALL
THEY'RE DOING IS ADDING TIME
AND TIME IS MONEY AND SO EVEN
ADDING A FEW WEEKS ONTO A
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS AND HAULING
,YOU KNOW, DEVELOPMENT TEAM IN
WITH THEIR ATTORNEYS THAT ADDS
MONEY THAT HAS ITS COST TO
HOUSING AND SO, YOU KNOW, THIS
IS ONE OF THE THINGS WE DON'T
HAVE A LOT OF LEVERS THAT WE
CAN PULL AS A CITY COUNCIL TO
AFFECT HOUSING COSTS IN OUR
CITY.
BUT WE'RE WE'RE CERTAINLY DOING
EVERYTHING WE CAN TO TO LOOK AT
WHAT WE CAN DO AND WE'LL TALK
LATER ABOUT HOUSING SUPPLY
THAT'S A BIG ONE.
BUT THE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS IS
ONE THAT CAN'T BE OVERLOOKED
AND I'M HAPPY THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS DONE THIS WORK
AND STAFF AND BROUGHT THIS TO
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF TWO FOUR FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED B THREE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND ZONING MAP
SECTION FIVE THAT TURNED OUT TO
HAVE CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE CITY
CODE FIVE POINT NINE ACRES FROM
TOWNSHIP DISTRICT TO R FOR E
WITH CONDITIONS MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT TWO FIVE
FIVE THREE SEVEN ONE SAYO
CHURCH ROAD AND TWO ONE EIGHT
ZERO ANN ARBOR SELINE ROAD
ROBERTSON HOMES REZONING MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER IHR SECOND BY
COUNCILOR ACKMANN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF B THREE COUNCIL
MEMBER IHR
THANK YOU MR. MAYOR.
I WANT TO BEGIN BY
ACKNOWLEDGING THE CONCERNS THAT
WE HAVE HEARD FROM NEARBY
RESIDENTS TO THIS PROJECT.
I DO REALLY APPRECIATE THE TIME
THAT NEIGHBORS HAVE TAKEN TO
STUDY THE PROPOSAL TO
COMMUNICATE WITH COUNCIL AND TO
STAY ENGAGED THROUGHOUT THE
PROCESS AFTER REVIEWING THE
MATERIALS LISTENING FOR PUBLIC
INPUT AND CONFERRING WITH
STAFF, I WILL BE SUPPORTING
THIS REZONING REQUEST.
THE PROPOSED ARE FOR REZONING
IS CONSISTENT WITH OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLANS DRAFT LAND
USE PLAN LAND USE MAP WHICH HAS
DESIGNATED THIS AREA AS
TRANSITION FROM THE BEGINNING.
SO WHILE THERE MAY HAVE BEEN
SOME DISCUSSION EARLY ON ABOUT
OTHER CATEGORIES, BOTH DRAFTS
OF THE MAP SHOW THIS
DESIGNATION AND THE RATIONALE
IS FOUND.
THE SITE IS LOCATED LESS THAN A
QUARTER MILE FROM SOUTH MAIN
STREET WHICH IS IDENTIFIED IN
THE RIDES TWENTY FORTY FIVE
PLAN AS A FUTURE HIGH FREQUENCY
TRANSIT CORRIDOR AND IT'S
ADJACENT TO AN OFFICE TO OFFICE
AND COMMERCIAL USES.
>> IT'S EXACTLY THE KIND
OF AREA WHERE WALKABLE, MORE
DENSE HOUSING MAKES SENSE.
THIS PROPOSAL IS ALSO ACTUALLY
FAR BELOW THE DENSITY THAT OUR
ZONING ALLOWS.
SO SOME MAY SAY UNFORTUNATELY
WHILE OUR FOUR PERMITS UP TO
SEVENTY FIVE UNITS PER ACRE THE
SITE PLAN COMES IN AT JUST
TWELVE UNITS PER ACRE WHICH IS
BELOW EVEN THE ADJACENT OUR ARE
TO A ZONING WHICH ALLOWS UP TO
17 BUILDINGS ARE LIMITED TO
THIRTY FOUR FEET WITH ROOFTOP
DECKS BRINGING A SMALL PORTION
TO FORTY AND THE DEVELOPER IS
COMMITTED TO NEARLY 50 PERCENT
OPEN SPACE WHICH IS
SIGNIFICANT.
>> I'VE ALSO HEARD CONCERNS
ABOUT COMPATIBILITY WITH
SURROUNDING HOMES AND AND
CERTAINLY SYMPATHETIC TO THOSE
CONCERNS.
IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT
THIS PROJECT IS NOT STUDENT
HOUSING.
IT WILL HAVE A HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION AND IT'S INTENDED
TO OFFER TOWNHOME STYLE HOUSING
FOR A RANGE OF RESIDENTS IF
NUISANCE ISSUES ARISE LATE
NIGHT NOISE OR LIGHTING, WE
HAVE ORDINANCES TO ADDRESS
THOSE AND I WOULD TAKE THOSE
CONCERNS SERIOUSLY IF THIS
PROJECT ALIGNS WITH OUR BROADER
GOALS AS A CITY SUPPORTING
ELECTRIFICATION WALKABILITY
REDUCED VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED
AND INCREASED HOUSING SUPPLY IN
AREAS THAT MAKE SENSE.
SO I THINK IT'S A STEP FORWARD
IN ADDRESSING OUR CITY'S
HOUSING NEEDS AND I'LL BE
VOTING YES COUNCIL OVER DISH.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER IRA
FOR ALL OF THAT.
I DO JUST WANT TO UNDERSCORE A
COUPLE OF THINGS THAT THIS IS A
PROPOSAL TO REZONE SOME
RECENTLY SEVERAL RECENTLY
ANNEXED PARCELS WHOSE ADDRESSES
YOU'VE ALREADY HEARD FROM
TOWNSHIP TO OUR FOUR E WITH
CONDITIONS AND THE CONDITION IS
LIMITING THE R FOR E ZONING
DESIGNATION WHICH ALLOWS
UNLIMITED HEIGHT TO FIFTY FEET
PER FOR FOR THE STRUCTURES
OF FIFTY FEET AND IT DOES
PREPARE THE WAY FOR SEVENTY
FIVE TOWN HOME FOR SALE
RESIDENTIAL UNITS IN TWELVE
THREE STOREY THIRTY FOUR FOOT
BUILDINGS SO OUR FOUR E
PROVIDES UNLIMITED HEIGHT.
THE PROPOSED CONDITION TAKES
ACCOUNT OF THE ZONING OF THE
NEIGHBORING PARCELS WHICH ARE A
MIX OF RESIDENTIAL ZONING
INCLUDING ARE TO A AND OUR 4B
ARE TO A IS A 30 FOOT HEIGHT
LIMIT SO UNLIMITED HEIGHT WOULD
NOT BE APPROPRIATE AND THOUGH
THE CONDITIONS ALLOWS FIFTY
FEET OF HEIGHT, THE PETITIONER
CLARIFIES THAT THE MEASUREMENT
TO THE PARAPET WILL BE THIRTY
FOUR FEET AND WITH DECS IT WILL
BE FORTY FEET SO IT'S A TEN
FOOT INCREASE OVER THE
NEIGHBORING PARCELS WE HAVE
RECEIVED A PETITION THAT OBJECT
TO THE 40 FOOT HEIGHT BECAUSE
THERE IS A NEIGHBORHOOD OF ONE
AND TWO STOREY HOMES.
THE LEGAL HEIGHT IN THOSE
NEIGHBORHOODS NONETHELESS IS
THIRTY FEET.
>> SO THAT'S HOW WE THINK ABOUT
IT.
IT'S WE THINK ABOUT THE
CONDITIONS IN RELATION TO THE
ALLOWABLE HEIGHT IN THE
NEIGHBORHOODS, NOT THE ACTUAL
STRUCTURES IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO I'M GRATEFUL FORHE
PARTICIPATION OF THE NEIGHBORS
AND WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THE SITE
PLAN WE'LL TALK ABOUT SOME
OF THE CHANGES THAT THEIR
PARTICIPATION BROUGHT ABOUT
WHICH I'M SURE WILL MAKE IT A
BETTER PROJECT.
>> BUT FOR NOW WE ARE JUST
VOTING ON THE ZONING.
>> SO LET'S DO THAT TOWNSMAN
RACKMAN FOR FURTHER DISCUSSION
ALL IN FAVOR OR OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED WITH EIGHT COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTING IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT DEBE ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
ROBERTSON HOMES A.K.A. SEVENTY
FIVE S MAIN SITE PLAN
OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TWO
FIVE FIVE THREE ONE FIVE THREE
SEVEN ONE CENTRAL CHURCH ROAD
TWO ONE EIGHT ZERO ANN ARBOR
SALEEN ROAD MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ACKMANN SECOND MY
COUNCIL HER CANAL DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DB ONE COUNCILOR
BRITISH OK SO YES INFILL
PROJECT SEVENTY FIVE TOWNHOMES
TWELVE THREE STORY WAIT IS THAT
RIGHT.
YES IT IS RIGHT.
SORRY I'M LOST IN MY NOTES IT
IS THAT KIND OF DAY YES.
TWELVE THREE STORY BUILDINGS
WITH ONE SIXTY SEVEN PARKING
SPACES ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
OF WHICH WILL BE IN GARAGES
UNDERNEATH IN UNITS WHICH IS
GREAT.
THE PROPOSED PROJECT IS
CONSISTENT NOT ONLY WITH WHAT
WE LOOK FORWARD TO BUT ALSO
WITH THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
LAND USE ELEMENT WHICH
RECOMMENDS SINGLE FAMILY
ATTACHED TOWN HOMES FOR THIS
SITE WHICH IS WHAT WHAT THESE
ARE THAT HOUSING TYPOLOGY ALSO
ALIGNS WITH THE SUSTAINABILITY
FRAMEWORK OF THE CURRENT PLAN
WHICH ECHOES THE NEED FOR
DIVERSE HOUSING INCLUDING
AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY FEATURES.
THESE HOMES WILL BE SOLD FOR
ROUGHLY HALF THE COST OF SINGLE
FAMILY DETACHED HOMES.
THE BUILDINGS WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIC WITH NO NATURAL GAS
CONNECTION EXCEPT AS AN
EMERGENCY BACKUP IN ADDITION,
THEY ARE USING EXTREMELY
EFFICIENT ENERGY BUILDING
ENVELOPE SCIENCE AND MATERIALS
WHICH IS IMPORTANT PLUS
EFFICIENT APPLIANCES AND AND
MORE AND IN RESPONSE TO
COMMUNITY FEEDBACK, THE SITE
PLAN PROVIDES TWO ROWS
OF EVERGREEN TREES TO SCREEN
BETWEEN THE UPPER LEFT CORNER
OF CYRA CHURCH ROAD AND THE
HOUSE NEXT OR THEY ARE THE
PROJECT ALSO HAS A LARGER THAN
REQUIRED SET BACK BETWEEN THIS
PROJECT AND THE NEIGHBORING
PROJECT OFF OF SALE CHURCH
THERE WILL BE NEW SIDEWALKS
THROUGHOUT THE DEVELOPMENT AND
SOME OF THESE SIDEWALKS WILL
CONNECT TO EXISTING
EIGHTY-EIGHT BUS STOPS ALONG
SIDE CHURCH IN SOUTH MAIN SO
THOSE ARE GOOD FEATURES.
IN ADDITION, THE DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT SPECIFIES FORTY SIX
THOUSAND DOLLAR PLUS VOLUNTARY
PARKS CONTRIBUTION AND IT
MEMORIALIZES THE COMMITMENT TO
ALL ELECTRIC WHICH MAKES IT
WHICH MAKES IT IN A THOROUGHLY
ENFORCEABLE FOR DISCUSSION
COUNCIL BRACKMAN I APPRECIATE
COUNCIL GOING OVER THE THINGS
THAT ARE BEING DONE TO MITIGATE
ANY IMPACTS TO NEIGHBORING
PROPERTIES.
I DON'T THINK YOU MENTIONED THE
PRIVACY FENCE IS ALSO IN THERE
BUT WHILE I'M TALKING ABOUT
THIS I I I COULDN'T HELP BUT
NOTICE AS YOU WERE TALKING
ABOUT THE PARKING SPOTS IT
SEEMED LIKE A GOOD TIME TO
BRING UP PEOPLE'S FEARS AROUND
OUR LACK OF PARKING
REQUIREMENTS.
PARKING MINIMUMS ON
DEVELOPMENTS AND PARKING STILL
GETS BUILT IF PEOPLE NEED IT.
THE POINT IS THE CITY IS NOT
ENFORCING THEM TO BUILD MORE
THAN WHAT IS NEEDED.
SO THANKS FOR HIGHLIGHTING THAT
AND TO SUPPORTING THIS AND
BRINGING MORE NEIGHBORS INTO
THE FOURTH WARD.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POST IT IS APPROVED D1 ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE AMENDMENT
NUMBER ONE FOR THE BROADWAY
PARK REDEVELOPMENT BROWNFIELD
PLANNED MOVE BY COUNCILOR
CORNELL'S SECOND COUNCILOR
BECAUSE HE HAD ONE DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC ONE COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL SORRY IT TOOK CAN TAKE
A MINUTE FOR MY COMPUTER TO
BOOT UP.
I KNOW THAT WE HAVE MISSED YOUR
VOTE FROM THE BROWNVILLE THIRTY
HERE FOR WE KNOW THAT THE
DEVELOPERS HERE AS WELL AND SO
I BELIEVE IS MR DELACOURT TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS THAT
COLLEAGUES MIGHT HAVE EIGHT
YEARS AGO THIS WAS THIS
BROWNFIELD WAS APPROVED AND SO
THIS IS NOT THIS MONEY HAS
ALREADY BEEN ALLOCATED TO THIS
DEVELOPER AND THEY AGREED TO
ENVIRONMENTAL ELEMENTS TO THIS
PROJECT HAVE BEEN DELIVERED.
>> SO THE FUNDING ADJUSTMENT
HERE REFLECTS THAT THE
DEVELOPER FOUND FUNDING AS HAS
BEEN MENTIONED FOR THOSE
ELEMENTS AND ARE SHIFTING TO
INFRASTRUCTURE.
SO THE BRIDGE AT AAGOT THAT IS
A HUGE IMPROVEMENT TO THAT AREA
IS A FINE EXAMPLE OF THAT AND
THIS IS ACTUALLY HOW WE WANT
THE PROCESS TO WORK TO PROVIDE
PUBLIC BENEFIT MORE PUBLIC
DOLLARS AND IT'S REALLY RARE.
I WANT TO POINT OUT FROM A
DEVELOPMENT STANDPOINT THAT THE
PROJECT IS BEING LED WITH
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS RIGHT NOW.
UNFORTUNATELY IT'S USUALLY AN
AFTERTHOUGHT ON HOW TO IMPROVE
SITES AND TO PROVIDE PUBLIC
BENEFIT WITH DOLLARS THAT ARE
LEFT OVER.
SO THE DEVELOPER IS ACTUALLY
DOING WHAT WE WOULD EXPECT AND
IS DOING GREAT STUFF FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
SO I WANT TO THANK COUNCILOR
MALIK WHO ISN'T HERE BUT HAS
BEEN A ROCKSTAR COLLEAGUE AND
ASKING STAFF QUESTIONS
REGARDING THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
ADDITIONAL SUSTAINABILITY
ELEMENTS.
I KNOW THAT THAT WAS BROUGHT UP
BY SOME PUBLIC SPEAKERS AND IN
CONTINUING THOSE CONVERSATIONS
WITH STAFF TODAY I WAS INFORMED
THE DEVELOPER IS EVALUATING HOW
TO ADD MORE CHARGING STATION
FOR ELECTRIC VEHICLES
ELECTRIFYING THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING ELEMENTS WHICH IS STILL
EARLY ENOUGH IN THE PLANNING
THAT THESE TYPES
OF IMPROVEMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE
CAN BE MADE EXCUSE ME AND
ELECTRIFYING THE HOTELS.
EACH HVAC SYSTEM IN THE BACK
SYSTEM IS AN INCREDIBLY LARGE
CONSUMER OF ELECTRICITY AND
POWER SO THIS IS A GOOD THING.
I WAS WONDERING IF THE
DEVELOPER WOULD BE WILLING TO
JUST BRIEFLY WALK US THROUGH
THE PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS THAT
HAVE ALREADY BEEN MADE IN THIS
PROJECT.
ALFOND WITHOUT THE TIP DOLLARS
AND THEREFORE MAKING THIS
REALLOCATION FINANCIALLY
FEASIBLE AND IN LINE WITH WHAT
WE WANT OUR BROWNFIELD DOLLARS
TO BE USED FOR
.
GOOD EVENING MEMBERS OF CITY
COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS DAVID DORITA AND I'M
A MEMBER OF THE ROXBURY GROUP.
I'M ALSO HERE WITH JAMES VAN,
THE PRESIDENT OF THE ROXBURY
GROUP AND ALSO WORKING ON THIS
PROJECT WITH US AND I KNOW AND
ELIZABETH FROM ESMIE SO I WANT
TO ADDRESS THAT QUESTION
IMMEDIATELY CAME UP AND THEN
THESE GUYS ARE GOING TO KEEP ME
HONEST BECAUSE THIS IS A BIG
AND COMPLEX PROJECT AND THE
DESCRIPTION THAT WAS MADE IS AN
ABSOLUTELY ACCURATE ONE.
FIRST OF ALL, EIGHT YEARS
SCAREY IT WAS A LONG TIME AGO
WHERE I WAS PROUD WHEN WE CAN
ACTUALLY GET TO THE END OF A
VERY LONG ROAD AND ACTUALLY DO
WHAT WE SAID WE WERE GOING TO
DO.
WE'VE GOT MORE OF THAT TO DO.
BUT IT IS REALLY THE ABILITY
AND I THINK THE FLEXIBILITY
OF THIS BODY AND AND I HAVE TO
ALSO OBVIOUSLY GIVE A LOT
OF CREDIT TO NATHAN AND THE
TEAM AT WASHTENAW COUNTY TO SEE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO REDEPLOY
FUNDS IN ELIGIBLE USES WHEN WE
WERE ABLE AND FORTUNATE ENOUGH
TO SECURE STATE DOLLARS A FEW
YEARS BACK FOR FOUR ITEMS THAT
FRANKLY WHEN WE STOOD BEFORE
HIS VERY BODY I GUESS SIX YEARS
AGO FIVE YEARS AGO WHEN THE
PROCESS OF ENTITLEMENT WE WERE
VERY CLEAR WE NEEDED MORE MONEY
FOR.
SO WE WE DID PUBLIC FUNDRAISING
AND WE'VE DONE PRIVATE
FUNDRAISING AND BOTH OF THOSE
ARE ARE BEARING FRUIT AND I
THINK THEY'RE PROVING SOMETHING
THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE QUESTION
WHICH IS WHETHER PUBLIC PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIP COULD CREATE PUBLIC
SPACE LIKE THIS.
SO TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION
QUICKLY, WHAT THOSE DOLLARS
ALLOWED US TO DO AND WHY WE'RE
ASKING FOR THE SHIFT NOW IS
THEY ALLOWED US TO DO THE
THINGS YOU'RE SEEING IN FRONT
OF YOU TODAY AND ALLOWED US TO
PRODUCE A PUBLIC SPACE WHICH WE
WILL GENUINELY CUT THE RIBBON
ON IN SEPTEMBER OF THIS YEAR
AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC NOT
BEFORE WE GET A SINGLE
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY FOR
RESIDENTIAL UNIT, WHICH IS WHAT
OUR DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT SAID.
BUT BEFORE WE EVEN START
BUILDING ANY RESIDENTIAL UNITS
SO WE'RE VERY PROUD OF THAT IT
WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN POSSIBLE
OF THE INCREDIBLE SUPPORT FROM
THE STATE AND AND WHAT IS ALSO
HELPING US DO RIGHT NOW IS
ADVANCE SOME OF THE PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WILL
ULTIMATELY ALLOWED VERTICAL
CONSTRUCTION WE HOPE TO START
BEFORE THE END OF THE YEAR.
SO THAT IS A VERY GENERIC
ANSWER AND I'VE GOT SMARTER
PEOPLE NEXT WEEK COULD GET MUCH
MORE TECHNICAL BUT I WANTED TO
AT LEAST EXPLAIN THAT'S WHY YOU
SEE WHAT YOU SEE THERE NOW.
>> THANK YOU.
IF THERE ARE OTHER QUESTIONS
FOR SURE TO ROLL INTO, GREAT
FOR YOU.
DO YOU WANT US TO LEAVE?
YOU DON'T HAVE TO GO FAR BUT
RECEIVE THE BACKGROUND BUT
THANK YOU FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNSELOR.
>> COULD I HEAR THAT LIST LOOK
IMPROVEMENT'S HE SAID NOT TO GO
FAR.
I APOLOGIZE.
COULD YOU REPEAT THE QUESTION
COUNSELOR?
>> I ASKED IF YOU COULD TELL US
THE LIST OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
THAT YOU'VE DONE IT WELL IT'S A
LONG LIST AND I THINK I DID
SEND SOME DATA POINTS OVER
BECAUSE I WAS AFRAID WE MISSED
SOME OF THEM.
BUT IT STARTED WHEN THIS THE
LAST TIME WE STOOD BEFORE THIS
BODY.
THIS WAS ARGUABLY THE MOST
CONTAMINATED SITE INSIDE THE
CITY LIMITS OF ANN ARBOR AND
AND IT IS SINCE THEN BEEN
REMEDIATED TO RESIDENTIAL
STANDARDS WHICH INVOLVED THIS
IS A NUMBER I LOVE USING TWENTY
THOUSAND TONS OF SOIL BEING
REMOVED FROM THIS SITE AND
REPLACED BY IT INVOLVED
BALANCING THE LAND TO MAINTAIN
ITS ITS ACTIVITY AS A
FLOODPLAIN WITHIN THE
FLOODPLAIN AND THE FLOODWAY.
IT DID INVOLVE THE MUCH
HERALDED PLACEMENT OF THE
BRIDGE TO THE AAGOT WHICH YOU
CAN SEE AND THE INCLUSION NOW
OF THE PUBLIC PATHWAYS THAT
CONNECT ABOUT TWELVE HUNDRED
FEET OF WATER FRONT.
IT IS NOW INVOLVING THE
INSTALLATION OF THE HABITAT
ALONG THAT WATERFRONT WHICH
HELPS MAKE THIS A SITE THAT ONE
OF OUR SUSTAINABLE COMPONENTS
IS THAT THIS SITE NATURALLY
DRAINS AND AND CLEANS
STORMWATER TO THE RIVER NOT
GOING TO THE STORM SYSTEM
OF THE SEA OF ANN ARBOR.
IT HAS BEGUN THE PROCESS
OF WHAT WE CALL GROUND
IMPROVEMENT THAT WILL ACTUALLY
ALLOW THE BUILDINGS TO BE BUILT
INCLUDING THE PUBLIC PAVILION
WHICH WAS A VERY EXCITING AND I
THINK MUCH SOUGHT AFTER
COMPONENT OF THIS PROJECT WHICH
WILL ALLOW 365 DAYS A YEAR
PUBLIC EVENTS AT THE SITE.
WE HOPE TO BREAK GROUND ON THAT
PROJECT BUT RIGHT NOW WE'VE
JUST DONE THE GROUND
IMPROVEMENTS FOR IT.
I WILL SAY TO THE TO THE POINT
ABOUT HOW A PROJECT LIKE THIS
CAN INDUCE PRIVATE INVESTMENT
WHICH I DON'T MEAN MONEY MAKING
INVESTMENT.
I MEAN DONATIONS WE HAVE RAISED
BECAUSE OF THE SUPPORT THAT WAS
ANTICIPATED BOTH THROUGH THE
BROWNFIELD TIF AND BECAUSE
OF THE MONEY WE RECEIVED FROM
THE STATE LEGISLATURE AND EAGLE
GRANTS WHICH WE'VE RECEIVED
WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO RAISE SO FAR
TEN MILLION DOLLARS IN PRIVATE
DONATIONS TO SUPPORT THE
DEVELOPMENT OF BROADWAY
WEST
THAT WILL MAKE THAT PAVILION
POSSIBLE.
WE HOPE TO BREAK GROUND ON THAT
THIS YEAR AS WELL.
WHAT ELSE WHAT ELSE HAVE WE
BUILT NOW?
JUST ABOUT PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE
UTILITIES, YOU KNOW, IN THIS
PHASE WILL CONCLUDE WITH US
INSTALLING ALL PUBLIC UTILITIES
AND COMPLETING THE STORM WATER
SYSTEM THAT OBVIOUSLY WOULD BE
TURNED OVER TO CITY BY THE
WATER SYSTEM.
WE TURNED OVER CITY ANN ARBOR
AT THE END OF ALL THAT AND THEN
YOU KNOW, IN OUR VIEW ALTHOUGH
THIS MAY LOOK TO SOME AS A
SUBDIVISION, WE REALLY WANTED
THIS TO BE AN EXTENSION OF THE
CITY ONTO THIS RECLAIMED LAND.
AND SO A LOT OF WHAT WE'RE
DOING NOW, A LOT OF LAND
BALANCING WE'RE DOING IS TO
ACTUALLY PUT IN THE ROADS AND
THE SIDEWALKS AND THE PARALLEL
PARKING AND THE REST OF THE
REQUIRED PARKING 450 SPACES
OF IT THAT WERE NEEDED FOR THIS
SITE.
SO SO WE'RE ABOUT HALFWAY
THROUGH THAT LONG LIST
OF THINGS AND AND SO LATER THIS
YEAR WILL BE COMMENCING ON THE
BALANCE OF THAT.
THANK YOU.
YOU WERE NOT ONLY IN MY WARD
BUT IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION, COUNCILMAN
CORNHILL, THIS IS REALLY QUICK
WHEN WE JUST TALKED ABOUT
PAVILION AND THE DEVELOPER
FAILED TO MENTION THAT THE
PAVILION ALTHOUGH IT WAS NOT
REQUIRED TO IS A MASS TIMBER
BUILD.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION IN FAVOR OR
OPPOSED IT IS PROVED DOWN TO
RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING SUMMARY
PUBLICATION OF TWO FIVE DASH
TWO FOR AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION FIVE TO EIGHT TO FIVE
TWO EIGHT THREE FIVE TO EIGHT
AT FOUR OR FIVE TO NINE SIX
RIGHT THAT TWO NINE SEVEN FIVE
TO NINE ELEVEN OF CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE OF TITLE FIVE OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY OF BANABA MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF D TO ONE
FAVOR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
THREE RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING
SUMMARY PUBLICATION
OF ORDINANCE TWO FIVE TO FIVE
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION
TWO SECTION FIVE TO FORTY FOUR
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY
OF BANABA CITIZEN PARTICIPATION
BY COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND BY
COUNTY MCCRINDLE DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF D THREE ON FAVOR POST
ITS APPROVED DC ONE RESOLUTION
TO REAPPOINT JESSICA FRANCIS TO
THE INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION
MUBI COUNCIL MEMBER BECAUSE
EDWYN SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
IA CORNELL DISCUSSION PLEASE DC
ONE ON FAVOR POSED PRU'S DC TO
RESOLUTION TO REAPPOINT
MICHELLE MICHELLE MARUCCI TO
THE LOCAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE
AUTHORITY AS A NON REGISTERED
ELECTOR MOVED BY COUNCILMAN
CORNELL SELECTED BY COUNCILOR
IA DISCUSSION CAMP COUNCILMAN
CORNELL I.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT IN THIS
INSTANCE TO PUT OUT OR TO PUT
FORWARD THAT MAROSI IS ACTUALLY
RUNS THE CENTER FOR INNOVATION
AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP AT
WASHTENAW COMMUNITY COLLEGE AND
THE DOLLARS INCLUDE ANN ARBOR
AND YPSILANTI WITHIN ITS SMART
ZONE DESIGNATION.
SO AS PART OF THAT IN THE
TECHNOLOGY THAT'S COMING OUT
OF WORK IS A LOT DIFFERENT THAN
WHAT'S COMING OUT OF EASTERN
AND U OF M SO IT'S THIS IS
REALLY GREAT TO HAVE HER VOICE
AND HER CONTRIBUTION IN HOW WE
ARE SUPPORTING OUR HIGH TECH
STARTUPS FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED IS APPROVED LEVIT
WITH SEVEN COUNTER STRIKE THAT
IS APPROVED APPROVED WITH EIGHT
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTING THE AFFIRMATIVE THE
SATISFYING THE SEVEN VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC THREE RESOLUTION
REGARDING THE DRAFT
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR AND THANK YOU
TO ALL OF THE RESIDENTS FOR
JOINING US TONIGHT TO SHARE
FEEDBACK AND TO THOSE OF YOU
WHO HAVE CONTRIBUTED EARLIER TO
IMPROVING THIS RESOLUTION, I
WILL BE SUPPORTING THIS
RESOLUTION WHICH ADVANCES WHAT
I BELIEVE WILL REMAIN ONE
OF THE MOST PROGRESSIVE AND
THOUGHTFUL COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLANS IN THE NATION A PLAN
THAT CONTINUES TO REFLECT MY
COMMITMENT TO ADVANCING HOUSING
GROWTH AND ACCESS IN OUR
COMMUNITY FROM THE OUTSET I
PROMISED RESIDENTS THAT I WOULD
CHAMPION GENTLE GROWTH IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS RECOGNIZING THAT
IF WE ARE GOING TO SERIOUSLY
ADDRESS OUR CITY'S NEED FOR
MORE HOUSING THAT WE DO NEED
MORE HOUSING IN EVERY PART
OF OUR CITY.
I BELIEVE THIS VISION DELIVERS
ON THAT PROMISE WHILE ALSO
ACKNOWLEDGING A COMMUNITY
DESIRE FOR US TO DEVELOP A
LAND-USE PLAN THAT EMPOWERS THE
EXISTENCE OF IDENTIFIABLE
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
ARE WELCOMING DIVERSE AND MORE
AFFORDABLE BUT ARE ALSO
DISTINCT IN FORM FROM MORE
DENSE TRANSITION AND HUB
DISTRICTS.
THIS RESOLUTION CONTINUES TO
ENABLE ADDITIONAL HOUSING
OPTIONS THROUGHOUT
OPPORTUNITIES THROUGHOUT ANN
ARBOR BY ALLOWING A BROADER
ARRAY OF HOUSING TYPES LIKE
DUPLEXES AND TRI PLEXUS IN
AREAS THAT ARE CURRENTLY
RESTRICTED TO SINGLE DETACHED
STRUCTURES AND REQUESTS AND
REQUESTS AN EXPEDITED PROCESS
TO ADVANCE THESE NEW HOUSING
TYPES TO MORE URGENTLY ADDRESS
OUR HOUSING SUPPLY NEEDS.
AT THE SAME TIME, THIS
RESOLUTION SETS A CLEAR
EXPECTATION THAT OUR HIGHEST
DENSITY HOUSING WILL BE FOCUSED
IN MAJOR HUBS AND ALONG TRANSIT
CORRIDORS.
THIS NOT ONLY ALIGNS WITH THE
PROMISES I MADE TO OUR
COMMUNITY BUT DELIVERS UPON OUR
VALUES OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
TRANSIT ACCESS AND AIMS TO
ENSURE THAT THE MOST DENSE
GROWTH HAPPENS ADJACENT TO JOBS
,SERVICES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
NECESSARY TO SUPPORT VIBRANT
CITY LIFE.
THIS RESOLUTION ACKNOWLEDGES
THE OBVIOUS PRESSURES
CREATED BY THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN ENROLLMENT GROWTH
AND EXPLICITLY ADDRESSES THIS
PRESSURE BY CALLING FOR MORE
HIGH DENSITY STUDENT ORIENTED
HOUSING AND HUB IN TRANSITION
AREAS WHICH IN MY VIEW WILL
HELP TO SUPPORT LIVELY, DENSE
STUDENT FOCUSED NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT CAN SUPPORT A DIVERSE
ARRAY OF RESTAURANTS AND RETAIL
AND HOPEFULLY RELIEVE SOME
OF THE SPRAWLING IMPACT OF MORE
AND MORE EXISTING SINGLE
DETACHED HOMES FROM BEING
CONVERTED INTO SINGLE DETACHED
STUDENT RENTALS AND EVENTUALLY
DETERIORATING OVER TIME.
I WILL ALSO RENEW A CALL THAT I
HAVE MADE MANY TIMES BEFORE FOR
THE UNIVERSITY TO BUILD MORE
HOUSING ON LAND THAT THEY
ALREADY OWN THROUGHOUT THE
CITY.
ADDITIONALLY, WE ARE ASKING FOR
A DATA DRIVEN PROCESS
RECOMMENDING A REVIEW TO SEE
HOW WELL THESE REFORMS ARE
WORKING AND TO MAKE ADJUSTMENTS
AS NEEDED.
THIS VISION WHICH STILL CREATES
MORE HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES THAN
THE MINNEAPOLIS MODEL WHERE
THEY HAVE SUCCEEDED IN KEEPING
HOUSING COSTS FLAT DESPITE
METEORIC INCREASES ELSEWHERE
REMAINS FOCUSED ON A VISION
OF AFFORDABILITY, EQUITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY.
FINALLY, THIS RESOLUTION
INCLUDES CLEAR STANDARDS AND
EXPECTATIONS IS ROOTED IN A
ROBUST PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT AND
RESPONSIVENESS TO THE
COMMUNITY'S FEEDBACK AND
RECOGNIZES THAT OUR WORK ISN'T
DONE WHEN THIS PLAN IS ADOPTED
.
I'M CONFIDENT THAT WITH THIS
RESOLUTION WE CAN LAY THE
FOUNDATION FOR AN ANN ARBOR
THAT IS MORE WELCOMING, MORE
AFFORDABLE AND MORE SUSTAINABLE
AND THAT INCREASES HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES EVERYWHERE IN OUR
CITY IN A WAY THAT CAN BE
ACCOMPLISHED WITH BROAD PUBLIC
SUPPORT.
I URGE YOUR SUPPORT OF THE
RESOLUTION AND LOOK FORWARD TO
WORKING TOGETHER TO SEE THIS
PLAN THROUGH SO THAT WE CAN
BEGIN THE REAL HARD WORK
OF ZONING OUR CITY ACCORDINGLY
.
THANK YOU COUNCILMAN.
BRITISH.
YOU ALL DON'T MAKE IT EASY TO
SIT IN THESE SEATS.
YOU'VE BEEN CRITICAL BUT YOU'VE
BEEN KIND.
YOU PRESENTED THOUGHTFUL
ARGUMENTS ABOUT ABOUT
FLEXIBILITY AND YOU'VE MADE AN
IMPRESSIVE SHOW OF PICTORIAL
EXAMPLES THAT IT'S HARD TO
ARGUE WITH THIS RESOLUTION,
HOWEVER, DOES SOME THINGS THAT
I FEEL NEED TO BE DONE.
IT PROVIDES DIRECTION TO THE TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION IN A
TIMELY FASHION SO THAT SOME
CHANGES CAN BE INCORPORATED
WITH A SECOND ROUND REVISIONS
TO THE DRAFT PLAN WITHOUT
SIGNIFICANT DELAY OF THE POINT
WHERE BOTH PARTIES APPROVE THE
PLAN AND RELEASE IT FOR A SIXTY
THREE DAY COMMENT PERIOD.
I WANT TO NOTE THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION IS ALREADY MADE
INTENSIVE REVISIONS TO THE
SECOND DRAFT OF THE PLAN SO
THERE WAS GOING TO BE A THIRD
DRAFT NO MATTER WHAT AND
ADDITIONS THAT WE'RE CALLING
FOR HERE ARE GOING TO COST MORE
.
BUT THE REVISIONS ALREADY WE'RE
NOT GOING TO COST NOTHING.
>> THE RESOLUTION ALSO
COMMUNICATES TO A BROAD
COALITION OF PROGRESSIVES AND
THE COMMUNITY OF WHICH YOU ARE
PART WHO SUPPORTED OUR ELECTION
AND WHO SUPPORT DELIVERED US
THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING MILEAGE
AND THE SUSTAINABILITY MILEAGE
BY ROUGHLY 70 PERCENT OF VOTING
INDIVIDUALS.
>> SOME OF THESE FOLKS HAVE
ANXIETY ABOUT THE PLAN AROUND
POINTS THAT WE BELIEVE CAN BE
SPECIFIED OR CLARIFIED AND SO
WE ARE TRYING TO SHOW THAT
WE'RE TAKING THEIR FEEDBACK
INTO ACCOUNT AND I KNOW THAT
YOU DON'T AGREE WITH ALL OF IT.
THE RESOLUTION SUPPORTS EQUAL
TREATMENT EVERY AREA OF THIS
CITY THAT IS CURRENTLY ZONED
FOR SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED
HOUSING OR DUPLEX HOUSING WE'LL
SEE A MEANINGFUL INCREASE IN
HOUSING OPPORTUNITY.
IT ALLOWS A THREE FOLD INCREASE
IN OUR ONE AND ONE ADDITIONAL
UNIT PAPASSO IN AREAS CURRENTLY
ZONED FOR DUPLEX.
THE RESIDENT RESOLUTION DOES
NOT SPEAK TO RESIDENTIAL AREAS
CURRENTLY ZONED HIGHER THAN R
ONE AND R TWO.
IT FOLLOWS THE DEFINITION
OF RESIDENTIAL ON PAGE 110
OF THE PLAN.
THIS RESOLUTION ALSO WARDS OFF
THE PITFALL OF MINNEAPOLIS THAT
ADAM GOODMAN LAID OUT THE
MINNIES MINNEAPOLIS PLAN
ENVISIONED TRI PLEXUS IN ALL
OF ITS R-1 AREAS BUT IN THE
ZONING PHASE MAY TRY PLEXUS
IMPOSSIBLE TO BUILD BECAUSE THE
ZONING DID NOT CHANGE
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND OTHER
ZONING REQUIREMENTS TO
FACILITATE THE GREATER RANGE
OF HOUSING THIS RESOLUTION DOES
NOT MAKE TRIPLEX IS
DUPLEXES BE
PROVIDED WIDE SPREAD
OPPORTUNITY AND EASE
OF DEVELOPMENT IN THESE LOWEST
DENSITY AREAS EASE
OF DEVELOPMENT IS A CALL FOR
REFORM TO DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS.
WITHOUT SUCH REFORM, THE
IMPLEMENTATION PHASE WILL
BETRAY THE PLAN.
THE PLAN ALSO ALLOWS
SIGNIFICANT HOUSING OPPORTUNITY
TO BE ADDED ALONG ARTERIALS,
TRANSITION TRANSIT CORRIDORS,
PLACES ADJACENT TO CAMPUS AND
IN DOWNTOWN.
THIS COUNCIL HAS BEEN APPROVING
HOUSING LIKE THIS ALREADY THERE
721 SOUTH FOREST A SEVEN
HUNDRED AND THIRTY THREE BED
PROJECT THAT IS THE FIRST HIGH
RISE OUTSIDE OF DOWNTOWN IN
MANY YEARS.
THIS COUNCIL ALSO APPROVED 740
PACARD WHICH WILL BRING OVER
1000 NEW BEDS.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER YES COUNCIL
MEMBER TISH
HIGHER.
I WISH I WISH I WAS HER.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I JUST WANT TO START BY
EXPRESSING MY DEEP APPRECIATION
TO THE MANY RESIDENTS WHO HAVE
ENGAGED WITH THIS PLANNING
PROCESS SO FAR THROUGH PUBLIC
MEETINGS, SURVEYS, EMAILS AND
PERSONAL CONVERSATIONS.
SOME OF THE MOST IMPACTFUL
FEEDBACK I'VE RECEIVED HAS COME
FROM THOSE WHO DON'T USUALLY
SPEAK UP AND ENGAGE IN THE
PUBLIC PROCESS.
>> THAT FEEDBACK HAS SHAPED HOW
WE'VE APPROACHED THIS
RESOLUTION AND WHY I BELIEVE
IT'S THE RIGHT NEXT STEP.
THIS RESOLUTION REAFFIRMS OUR
SHARED COMMITMENT TO LEGALIZING
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING IN ALL
AREAS OF THE CITY IN SERVICE
OF THE GOAL OF MAKING ANN ARBOR
A MORE AFFORDABLE, EQUITABLE
AND SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY.
IT ALSO RECOGNIZES SOMETHING I
HEAR OVER AND OVER AGAIN
RESIDENTS SUPPORT ADDITIONAL
HOUSING AND THEY WANT IT DONE
IN A WAY THAT'S GENERALLY
COMPATIBLE WITH THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT.
AT THE SAME TIME I WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT SOME
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE ALREADY UNDER
EXTREME MARKET PRESSURE IN
AREAS LIKE LOWER PARK WHICH I
REPRESENT.
WE'RE SEEING HOMES CONVERTED
INTO HIGH PRICED STUDENT
RENTALS OR REDEVELOPED INTO
EXPENSIVE SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
AT A PACE THAT OUTSTRIPS MUCH
OF THE REST OF THE CITY.
>> MANY OF US HAVE SAID WE WANT
NEAR CAMPUS NEIGHBORHOODS TO
CONTINUE BEING PLACES WHERE A
DIVERSE MIX OF PEOPLE CAN LIVE
.
IF THAT'S TRULY OUR GOAL THEN
WE NEED TO BE WILLING TO TAKE
INTENTIONAL STEPS TO MAKE IT
POSSIBLE BECAUSE THE MARKET
WILL DO OTHERWISE.
THAT MEANS TAILORING OUR
IMPLEMENTATION TOOLS TO MANAGE
PRESSURES THAT ARE ALREADY
DISTORTING OUTCOMES.
>> WHILE THIS RESOLUTION
DOESN'T SINGLE OUT ANY
NEIGHBORHOOD, IT DOES RECOGNIZE
TOOLS WE CAN USE TO RESPOND
WITH NUANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY
WHEN WE GET TO ZONING.
IF WE CARE ABOUT EQUITABLE
OUTCOMES WE NEED TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THE MARKET IS NOT
IMPACTING EVERY PART OF THE
CITY IN THE SAME WAY I DO
BELIEVE THAT EVEN WITH THIS
ITERATIVE PROCESS WE ARE ON
TRACK TO ADOPT ONE OF THE MOST
PROGRESSIVE LAND USE PLANS IN
THE COUNTRY AND I WANT TO NOTE
THAT I KNOW OTHER COUNCIL
MEMBERS ARE LOOKING CLOSELY AT
WHAT IS WORKING AND WHAT IS NOT
WORKING IN OTHER CITIES AND WE
ARE NOT WANTING TO REPEAT
MISTAKES THAT THE RESOLUTION
STRENGTHENS THE PLAN BY MAKING
IT MORE ACTIONABLE AND MORE
RESPONSIVE TO WHAT WE'VE HEARD.
IT COMMITS US TO DATA
TRANSPARENCY TO EVALUATE
OUTCOMES AND TO COME BACK IN
FIVE YEARS TO MAKE ADJUSTMENTS
IF NEEDED.
>> IT MOVES US CLOSER TO A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT CAN
ACTUALLY BE IMPLEMENTED WITH
BROAD COMMUNITY SUPPORT.
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
>> FIRST I WANT TO START BY
THANKING THE ADVOCATES WHO
SUGGESTED CHANGES TO THIS
RESOLUTION.
YOU MADE IT BETTER AND I ALSO
APPRECIATE THE CO-SPONSORS FOR
MAKING THESE IMPORTANT CHANGES.
>> I'LL BE SUPPORTING THIS
RESOLUTION BECAUSE IT
REPRESENTS WHAT I THINK IS REAL
PROGRESS TOWARD CREATING MORE
HOUSING IN ANN ARBOR AND
BUILDING A CITY WHERE MORE
PEOPLE, NOT FEWER CAN AFFORD TO
LIVE AS OTHERS SAID, THIS
RESOLUTION SETS A CITYWIDE
BASELINE FOR MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING BY AFFIRMING THAT
DUPLEXES AND TRIPLE ACCESS
SHOULD BE ALLOWED IN EVERY
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THAT'S A HUGE WIN FOR
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT CURRENTLY
WHILE ONLY ONE TYPE OF HOUSING
THIS OPENS THE DOOR TO A
GREATER VARIETY HOMES THAT FOR
FAMILIES, SENIORS AND
INDIVIDUALS AT DIFFERENT LIFE
STAGES.
IT'S ABOUT GIVING PEOPLE
OPTIONS WHERE THERE HAVE BEEN
VERY FEW.
I KNOW THIS PLAN DOES NOT
DELIVER EVERYTHING OR I SHOULD
SAY THIS RESOLUTION AND THE
DIRECTION DOES NOT DELIVER
EVERYTHING THAT SOME OF US
WANTS RIGHT NOW.
I SHARE THE ASPIRATION FOR
AMBITIOUS REFORMS AND I WILL
CONTINUE TO ADVOCATE FOR THEM
BUT WE CAN'T LOSE SIGHT OF WHAT
THIS ACHIEVES A CLEAR
COMMITMENT TO LEGALIZE SMALL
SCALE MULTIFAMILY HOUSING
EVERYWHERE AND THE DIRECTION TO
MAKE THOSE HOMES FEASIBLE TO
BUILD AND MONITOR OUR PROGRESS.
THAT MEANS TACKLING WHAT SIZE
SETBACKS AND OTHER BARRIERS
DURING THE ZONING PHASE WHICH
I'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT AND
PUSHING FOR SINCE THE DAY TOOK
OFFICE ON THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS AND I SEE HOW THIS
PLAYS OUT ALL THE TIME.
SOME SAY THIS IS CAPITULATION.
IT IS NOT.
THERE WILL ALWAYS BE VOICES WHO
WANT TO PRESERVE THE STATUS QUO
TO OPPOSE NEW HOUSING.
BUT THAT APPROACH IS NOT
SUSTAINABLE FOR OUR COMMUNITY.
DOING NOTHING IS NOT AN OPTION.
I'VE WORKED HARD TO PUSH
AGAINST PUSH BACK AGAINST
MISINFORMATION AND FRANKLY
AGAINST SOME PULLING
EXCLUSIONARY LANGUAGE INCLUDING
SUGGESTIONS YPSILANTI SHOULD BE
A SOLUTION TO OUR HOUSING
CRISIS.
I'VE EVEN HAD PEOPLE RESPOND TO
MY OWN STORY OF GROWING UP IN
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING GASP AS A
CHILD BY SAYING TO MY FACE WELL
MAYBE YOUR FAMILY JUST WOULDN'T
BE ABLE TO LIVE.
THESE CONVERSATIONS ARE NOT
ABSTRACT TO ME.
THEY ARE PERSONAL.
THEY INFORM MY ROLE AS A
COUNCIL MEMBER AND I REMAIN
FULLY COMMITTED TO THE GOALS
THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN HOUSING
ABUNDANCE, EQUITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY.
THIS RESOLUTION, AS OTHERS HAVE
MENTIONED, PROVIDES CLARITY FOR
RESIDENTS WHO HAVE BEEN
CONFUSED ABOUT WHAT'S ON THE
TABLE THAT POSITIONS US TO
DOUBT A PLAN THAT WILL HOLD UP
AND BE IMPLEMENTED BECAUSE A
PLAN THAT DIES IN POLITICAL
GRIDLOCK HELPS NO ONE.
MY FELLOW ADVOCATES FOR
PROGRESSIVE LAND-USE REFORM I
WANT TO SAY THIS I HEAR YOUR
CONCERNS.
I SHARE YOUR SENSE OF URGENCY.
I ALSO KNOW WHAT HAPPENS WHEN
WE LET PERFECT BE THE ENEMY
OF PROGRESS.
WE GET NOTHING TONIGHT WE HAVE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO SECURE A
FOUNDATIONAL WIN AFFIRMING OUR
COMPREHENSIVE AFFIRMING AND OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SHOULD ALLOW
DUPLEXES AND LEXY'S EVERYWHERE
IN THE CITY.
THAT'S A MEANINGFUL STEP TOWARD
DIVERSE HOUSING STOCK THAT
ANAPRA DESPERATELY NEEDS.
WE CAN'T AFFORD TO STAND STILL.
WE ALL WANT A CITY WHERE
TEACHERS, NURSES, YOUNG
FAMILIES AND SENIORS CAN FIND A
HOME AND THAT MEANS ACTING.
NOW MY GOAL IS NOT JUST
RESOLUTIONS TO STEER THIS PLAN.
IT'S GETTING A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN THAT WE CAN ADOPT AND
IMPLEMENT SO THAT REAL HOUSING
GETS BUILT THIS RESOLUTION
MOVES US CLOSER TO THAT.
I WANT US TO PASS IT AND KEEP
MOVING FORWARD.
>> THANK YOU, MR. MAYOR.
I WANT TO THANK MY COLLEAGUES
WHO WORKED ON THIS AND
CONTINUED WORKING ON IT THROUGH
THE WEEKEND TO MAKE IT BETTER.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK EVERYONE
WHO WROTE, CALLED AND CAME
TONIGHT ALL THE SHOWS THAT THE
WORK WE'RE DOING IS
COMPLICATED.
IT IMPACTS EVERYONE LIVING IN
THE CITY AND EVERYONE WHO WANTS
TO BE OUR NEIGHBOR AND FOR
THOSE WHO SUGGEST VOICES AREN'T
BEING HEARD OR BEING IGNORED.
I HOPE THE EVOLUTION BY WHICH
THIS RESOLUTION ARRIVED HERE AT
THE TABLE TONIGHT IS STRONG
PROOF TO THE CONTRARY.
>> I ALSO HOPE THAT AS A BODY
OUR ABILITY TO AGREE TO
DISAGREE WITH RESPECT IS A IS A
FORM OF LEADERSHIP AND A MODEL
FOR OUR COMMUNITY AT LARGE AS
WE CONTINUE THROUGH THIS
PROCESS.
>> I'M VOTING NO ON THIS
RESOLUTION.
I BELIEVE WE NEED MORE HOUSING
OF ALL TYPES IN EVERY
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THIS COUNCIL HAS ALREADY TAKEN
STEPS TO CAP BUILDING HEIGHTS
IN OUR RESIDENTIAL AREAS WHILE
I DISAGREED AND CONTINUE TO
DISAGREE WITH UNCERTAIN COUNCIL
INTO A PROCESS THAT PLANNING
COMMISSION WAS TASKED WITH
MANAGING AND CONTINUES IN
EARNEST.
THAT SAID, AT THAT TIME AND NOW
I'M FUNDAMENTALLY OPPOSED TO
ACTION THAT WOULD SLOW DOWN,
IMPEDE OR INTERFERE WITH THE
WORK PLANNING COMMISSION IS
DOING ON PLAN.
WHEN I RAN FOR OFFICE I
PROMISED PEOPLE WHO TRUSTED ME
WITH THEIR VOTE THAT I THAT I
SEE HOUSING AND ADVANCING OUR
ZERO GOALS AS ENTIRELY
CODEPENDENT.
HOUSING IS THE FULCRUM IN
REALIZING OUR CLIMATE GOALS.
OUR LACK OF HOUSING MEANS
PEOPLE, STUDENTS, SENIORS,
TEACHERS, SKILLED SKILLED
TRADESPERSONS, FIRST RESPONDERS
HAVE TO COMMUTE INTO THE CITY
TO WORK HERE.
THESE COMMUTES FROM PLACES
CHELSEA AND CELINE AND
BELLVILLE CONTRIBUTE MORE
CARBON INTO THE ATMOSPHERE THAN
PRESERVING THE WHOLE FOREST
WOULD MITIGATE AND IT HAPPENS
EVERY SINGLE DAY.
SO HERE WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY
TO CORRECT THIS IMBALANCE TO
PUT OUR FOOT ON THE GAS AND
INCREASE HOUSING A WELCOME NEW
NEIGHBORS AND WE ARE WITH THIS
RESOLUTION COMMITTING THE CITY
TO NOT GETTING PAST SECOND
GEAR.
>> I ALSO WANT TO TOUCH BRIEFLY
ON HOW ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ARE
EQUITY ISSUES MEANING THE
EQUITABLE SHARING
OF ENVIRONMENTAL BURDENS.
NO SINGLE GROUP SHOULD BEAR A
DISPROPORTIONATE SHARE
OF ENVIRONMENTAL HARMS WHICH
INCLUDES LIVING FARTHER AWAY
FROM YOUR WORK, YOUR SCHOOL,
YOUR KIDS DAYCARE, YOUR
DOCTOR'S APPOINTMENTS ETC. AND
THOSE CHOICES ARE COMPLETELY
DEPENDENT ON HOUSING NOT BEING
AVAILABLE IN THOSE PLACES.
>> EQUITY ALSO DEMANDS EVERYONE
TO HAVE THE ABILITY TO HAVE
MEANINGFUL INVOLVEMENT IN
ENVIRONMENTAL DECISION MAKING
BY LIMITING HOUSING IN ANY WAY
WE CREATE BARRIERS TO RESIDENCY
THAT NEGATIVELY IMPACT
PARTICIPATION IN OUR LOCAL
POLITICS.
PEOPLE CAN'T LIVE HERE, CAN'T
VOTE HERE AND ARE BOXED OUT
OF DECISIONS THAT DIRECTLY
IMPACT THEIR FINANCES, THEIR
QUALITY OF LIFE AND THEIR
HEALTH AND MOST IMPORTANTLY
ENVIRONMENTAL EQUITY RECOGNIZES
THAT CERTAIN GROUPS FACE
HISTORIC AND ONGOING SYSTEMIC
BARRIERS TO ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTIONS.
HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS THROUGHOUT
THE CITY IN ALL NEIGHBORHOODS
ADDRESSES THESE INEQUITIES.
MY SINCERE HOPE IS THAT THIS
RESOLUTION CONSIDERED BY
PLANNING COMMISSION IS FURTHER
IMPROVED TO ADDRESS SOME
OF THESE REAL CONCERNS THAT ARE
URGENT.
OUR WORLD IS ON FIRE AND AS
LEADERS WE SHOULD ADDRESS IT
HERE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
THANK YOU EVERYONE AS WELL FOR
ALSO COMING HERE TONIGHT AND
SHARING YOUR THOUGHTS AND YOUR
CONCERNS.
I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO THANK MY
COLLEAGUES FOR REALLY WORKING
AS A COUNCIL MEMBER CANALSIDE
TO MAKE THIS TO MAKE THIS
RESOLUTION BETTER.
>> SO I WILL NOT BE SUPPORTING
THIS RESOLUTION TONIGHT.
>> I'D LIKE TO TALK A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT WHY SO I'VE HEARD THE
CONCERNS IN OUR NEIGHBORHOODS
AND I TAKE THEM SERIOUSLY.
I SUPPORT GENTLE SMALL SCALE
DENSITY THAT WOULD HELP US
CREATE HOMES FOR A MISSING
MIDDLE WHICH I KNOW MANY IN OUR
COMMUNITY AGREE WITH.
BUT CAPPING HOUSING AT THROUGH
UNITS ACROSS THE BOARD,
ESPECIALLY WHILE WE ARE STILL
IN THE MIDST OF DRAFTING THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN MAY BLOCK
CREATIVE SOLUTIONS THAT FIT
WITHIN NEIGHBORHOOD FORM AND
HELP KEEP HOUSING ATTAINABLE
AND AFFORDABLE FOR THOSE WHO
NEED IT MOST LIKE WORKING
FAMILIES, ESSENTIAL WORKERS AND
OTHERS.
I BELIEVE THAT THERE MAY BE
SOME MERIT TO SOME ASPECTS
OF THIS RESOLUTION BUT I DO NOT
BELIEVE THAT DISCUSSING IT NOW
WITH THIS LEVEL OF SPECIFICITY
IS NEITHER THE TIME NOR THE
PLACE AT THIS KIND OF DIRECTIVE
HAD BEEN IN PLACE YEARS AGO.
IT IS LIKELY THAT A DEVELOPMENT
LIKE PITTSFIELD VILLAGE, A
BELOVED NEIGHBORHOOD THAT
OFFERS AFFORDABILITY AND
COMMUNITY THROUGH THOUGHTFUL
DENSITY WOULD BE EXTREMELY
DIFFICULT TO BUILD IN MANY
OF OUR RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
EVERY DAY WE DELAY MAKING ROOM
FOR MORE NEIGHBORS AS ANOTHER
DAY WE PUSH PEOPLE OUT OF OUR
CITY AND WE MISS OUT ON THEIR
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC
CONTRIBUTIONS.
>> IN THIS MOMENT I'D LIKE TO
SEE US INVEST IN PUBLIC
EDUCATION ABOUT WHERE
DEVELOPMENT ACTUALLY TENDS TO
HAPPEN WHICH IS REALLY IN LOW
DENSITY NEIGHBORHOODS
AND HOW
WE BENEFIT FROM WELCOMING MORE
NEIGHBORS COULD BECOME MORE
SAFER.
WE'VE BECOME A HEALTHIER
COMMUNITY WHEN WE HAVE MORE
PEOPLE LIVE HERE.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO SEE A
CENTER THE VOICES OF RESIDENTS
MOST MARGINALIZED BY HOUSING
ACCESS AND HELPING TO SHAPE HOW
WE RESPOND AND LEAD DURING THIS
ONGOING PROCESS THAT COULD MEAN
CREATING SOMETHING LIKE
COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP COUNCIL
SIMILAR TO WHAT WE HAVE
CREATED FOR THE DUNBAR TOWER
DEVELOPMENT WHERE THOSE MOST
IMPACTED HELP GUIDE SOLUTIONS
AND HELP US TO UNDERSTAND THE
IMPACT OF THESE COMPLEX
DECISIONS.
WE MIGHT ALSO EXPLORE TOOLS
LIKE COMMUNITY BENEFITS
AGREEMENT WHICH SOME CITIES USE
TO GIVE RESIDENTS A MEANINGFUL
SAY IN SETTING DEVELOPMENT
PRIORITIES WHETHER THAT'S
AFFORDABILITY, INFRASTRUCTURE,
TREE PRESERVATION,
ACCESSIBILITY.
WHILE THIS APPROACH WOULD NEED
TO BE TAILORED TO ANN ARBOR,
IT'S WORTH CONSIDERING IN AREAS
UNDERGOING CHANGE AND AS WE
DEVELOP HOUSING POLICY IT IS
CRITICAL THAT WE ALSO ENGAGE
PARTNERS AVALON HOUSING THE
WASHINGTON HOUSING ALLIANCE AND
OTHERS WORKING DILIGENTLY ON
THE FRONT LINES OF HOUSING
JUSTICE WHENEVER WE CONSIDER
POLICIES THAT IMPACT WHERE
PEOPLE CAN AND CANNOT LIVE.
>> FINALLY, I'D LOVE TO SEE A
DEEPER COLLABORATION WITH THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN THROUGH
SOMETHING LIKE A JOINT TASK
FORCE ON HOUSING AND LAND USE
SO THAT TOGETHER WE'RE ASSURING
STUDENTS WORKING FAMILIES,
OLDER ADULTS AND OTHERS ALL
HAVE EQUITABLE ACCESS TO
HOUSING ACROSS OUR CITY.
WHILE I CAN'T SUPPORT THIS
RESOLUTION AS WRITTEN, I DO
SUPPORT A PATH FORWARD THAT
BALANCES AFFORDABILITY AND
CENTRIST COMMUNITY VOICES
THROUGHOUT THE PROCESS.
>> THANK YOU.
THAT'S ANOTHER ROXANN
.
ANN ARBOR DESERVES A PLAN THAT
MEETS THE NEEDS OF CURRENT AND
FUTURE RESIDENTS WHEN IT COMES
TO AFFORDABILITY EQUITABILITY,
EQUITY AND SUSTAINABILITY.
I APPRECIATE EVERYONE WHO CAME
OUT TONIGHT AND I TOOK THE
OPPORTUNITY TO LISTEN AND
CONSIDER THE MANY LIFE
EXPERIENCES MORE THAN A FEW
MIRRORING MY OWN THAT RESIDENTS
BROUGHT TO CITY HALL TONIGHT I
HEARD THE SUPPORT EXPRESSED FOR
THE PLAN AND THE SKEPTICISM
EXPRESSED ABOUT THE RESOLUTION
BY SUPPORTERS AND DETRACTORS
OF THE NEW PLAN OF LIGHT SINCE
PART OF THIS RESOLUTION SPEAKS
TO RESIDENTS WHO HAVE CALLED
FOR BALANCE.
I WANTED TO TALK ABOUT WHERE
THAT COMES FROM.
I'VE HEARD FROM A LOT OF I'VE
HEARD A LOT AND MY WARD INFOSEC
IN PHONE CALLS AND EMAILS FROM
PEOPLE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
CONTOURS OF THE PLAN.
I'VE SAID IT BEFORE BUT I HAVE
ALSO WRITTEN ON A BUS TOUR
OF THE HISTORICALLY BLACK
NEIGHBORHOODS HERE IN ANN ARBOR
WITH THE COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL AND EVEN HEARD
SPECIFICALLY FROM THEM SPEAKING
ON DEVELOPMENT HOW THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS HAVE CHANGED MANY
ISSUES THAT ARE IN TENSION.
YOU KNOW, AFTER THE BROAD
CONVERSATIONS I'VE HAD AND I'M
FOCUSING ON THE FULL
CONVERSATIONS I LEARNED THAT A
LOT OF RESIDENTS DON'T KNOW THE
CITY AND PLANNING COMMISSION
CAN USE FORUM BASED CODE AND
THE IMPLEMENTATION PHASE OF THE
PLAN.
THIS FORUM BASED CODE CAN FIT
NEW DEVELOPMENT WITHIN THE FORM
OF A NEIGHBORHOOD AND ITS
STREETSCAPE INCLUDING TREES AND
SIDEWALKS.
FORM BASED CODE CAN ALSO IMPACT
NEIGHBORHOOD WALKABILITY MIX
UNIT TYPES AND FEATURES THAT
ALLOW A WIDE RANGE OF PEOPLE
YOUNG ADULTS, SENIORS, FAMILIES
AND INDIVIDUAL ADULTS TO LIVE
NEARBY BY COMMUNICATING THAT
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
ARE CONSIDERING THESE ISSUES,
THIS RESOLUTION LAYS GROUNDWORK
TO GET MORE PEOPLE ON BOARD
MIKO'S SPONSORS AND I WORKED
HARD ON THIS RESOLUTION EVERY
WORD IT ISN'T PERFECT BUT I CAN
LIVE WITH EVERYTHING THE
RESOLUTION EXPRESSES IT
ARTICULATES THE TOOLS PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS AT ITS DISPOSAL
AND AFFIRMS THE SUPPORT FOR
INCREASED DIVERSITY OF HOUSING
OPTIONS.
IT ALSO ADDRESSES SOME
WIDESPREAD CONCERNS LIKE ASKING
FOR LIMITATIONS OF SHORT TERM
RENTALS WHICH ARE KNOWN TO
REDUCE HOUSING SUPPLY IN THE
TRANSITION CATEGORY.
NEW SHORT TERM NON OWNER
OCCUPIED RENTALS ARE ALREADY
PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL
ZONES.
>> I CONTINUE TO APPRECIATE
FEEDBACK AND CONVERSATION ON
THE DRAFT PLAN AND I'M
CONFIDENT THE FINAL DRAFT WILL
MOVE THE CITY FORWARD IN
ADDRESSING THE CITY'S HOUSING
NEEDS.
FURTHER DISCUSSION BRITISH.
>> I JUST WANTED TO RAISE ONE
MORE POINT WHICH IS REALLY
GOING TO BE MORE IN THE NATURE
OF A QUESTION.
UM SO IN THE LIST OF BULLETS
WHERE WE ILLUSTRATE POSSIBLE
TOOLS TO BE USED FOR THE ZONING
PHASE, I THINK A LOT OF YOU
PICKED UP ON THE LIMITS ON
UNITS AND BEDROOMS AND BATHROOM
PER UNIT AND THE REASON WHY
THAT'S THERE OR THAT OR I MEAN
IT'S JUST AN ILLUSTRATION
OF SOMETHING THAT COULD BE USED
BUT WHAT I HAVE READ ABOUT
COLLEGE TOWNS LIKE OURS IN
ACTUALLY FROM AN ARTICLE THAT
DOES EVEN MENTION ANN ARBOR IS
THAT THE MORE UNITS AND
BEDROOMS AND BATHROOMS PER UNIT
THAT ZONING ALLOWS PER PARCEL
THE HIGHER THE PRICE IN CERTAIN
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT INVESTORS
AND FINANCE YEARS ARE WILLING
TO MAKE AVAILABLE TO A
DEVELOPER TO PAY FOR THAT
EXISTING PARCEL.
>> SO IN IN RESIDENT IN OUR ONE
IN OUR TWO THAT ARE CLOSE
ENOUGH TO CAMPUS THIS PUSHES UP
RENTS AND PUSHES UP HOUSING
COSTS RAPIDLY BECAUSE THEY'RE
THEY'RE ABLE TO GET INTO A
BIDDING WAR FOR PROPERTY.
>> SO I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR WHAT
YOU KNOW ABOUT WHAT OTHER
CITIES ARE DOING ABOUT THIS
PHENOMENON THAT DOES HAPPEN IN
COLLEGE TOWNS AND HOW WE GIVE
HOME SEEKERS WHO DON'T HAVE
ACCESS TO THE KIND OF CAPITAL
INVESTMENT THE DEVELOPERS CAN
RAISE.
>> HOW DO WE GIVE THEM A
FIGHTING CHANCE AT BEING ABLE
TO PURCHASE OR RENT SOME OF THE
NEW UNITS THAT I HOPE WILL
SOMEDAY EXIST IN TRIPLEX IN OUR
ONE INTO AREAS AND THERE ARE
GEOGRAPHIC DIFFERENCES IN THE
MARKETS IN THIS CITY DEPENDING
ON HOW YOU FAR YOU ARE FROM
CENTRAL CAMPUS.
SO I'M INTERESTED IN HOW TO
DEAL WITH THAT AND I THINK YOU
WOULD BE AND NOT FROM SUBSIDY,
RIGHT?
>> BECAUSE WE'RE DOING SUBSIDY
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
BUT HOW DO WE DO THIS IN THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS SO THAT BY WAY
OF THAT'S WHY IT'S THERE IT'S
NOT ABOUT EXCLUDING STUDENTS AT
ALL.
IT'S ABOUT THE ISSUE OF YOU
KNOW, PRICES RISING OUT
OF CONTROL AND HOW DO WE
CONTROL THINGS FURTHER
DISCUSSION
SO I'VE SPENT MANY
YEARS AS A MAYOR AND A COUNCIL
MEMBER WORKING TO EXPAND
HOUSING OPTIONS AND SUPPLY AND
WELCOME WELCOMING NEIGHBORS
EVERYWHERE THROUGHOUT OUR CITY
.
>> AND THIS COUNCIL HAS ALSO
TIME AND TIME AGAIN ACTED TO DO
THE SAME.
WE HAVE AN AFFORDABILITY CRISIS
SINCE 2014 MEDIAN AGE TO RENT
HAS INCREASED AT TWO POINT FIVE
PERCENT TIMES THE RATE
OF INFLATION MEDIUM TO HOME
PRICES HAVE INCREASED AT FOUR
TIMES THE RATE OF INFLATION AND
THE ONLY SOLUTION TO THAT OUT
OF CONTROL COST GROWTH IS TO
ENTITLE ADDITIONAL HOUSING
SUPPLY.
THE DRAFT PLAN ENVISIONED BY
THIS RESOLUTION IF ZONING CAN
ACCOMPLISH THAT VISION WOULD
REACH THAT GOAL WOULD
ACCOMPLISH THAT GOAL THROUGHOUT
THE CITY DECISIVELY AND WITHOUT
EXCEPTION IT WOULD PROMOTE
EQUITY SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY.
WE HERE IN COUNCIL WE LISTEN TO
PROFESSIONALS, STAFF,
COMMISSIONERS, COMMUNITY
MEMBERS AS A WHOLE AND IT IS
OUR TASK AND OUR CHALLENGE IS
ELECTED OFFICIALS TO REPRESENT
EXISTING RESIDENTS AND TO SERVE
AS TRUSTEES FOR FUTURE
RESIDENTS.
FOR SOME IN THE ROOM IS
ADJUSTMENTS REQUESTED BY THE
RESOLUTION RUB AGAINST BOTH
OF THESE NODES BOTH YOUR VIEW
OF THE LONG TERM GOOD AND YOUR
PERSONAL WISHES.
YOU DO NOT FEEL REPRESENTED AND
I HEAR THAT AND I REGRET THAT
FROM MY PART.
HOWEVER, THE RESOLUTION IT DOES
NOT EXIST IN A VACUUM.
IT LOOKS TO INTERACT WITH AN
EXISTING DOCUMENT THE PLAN AS
IT IS NOW AND IT IS A PLAN THAT
IF IF IT WILL BE MODIFIED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESOLUTION
AS MY COLLEAGUES HAVE
ARTICULATED IT WILL BE AND WILL
REMAIN AND A PROGRESSIVE
EQUITABLE DOCUMENT THAT
PROMOTES AFFORDABILITY A PLAN
THAT IF IMPLEMENTED WILL
ENTITLE MUCH NEEDED MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING SUPPLY THROUGHOUT THE
CITY AND CRUCIALLY IF MODIFIED
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS
THIS RESOLUTION IT WILL BE
ACCEPTABLE TO MORE MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY.
THE RESOLUTION ADDRESSES SOME
DISINFORMATION REGARDING
HEIGHT, ZONING TOOLS, MULTIPLE
DISTRICTS, STARS AND REQUEST
TWEAKS THAT THE OF THE CURRENT
DIRECTIONALITY THE PLAN TO
ADDRESS WHAT I BELIEVE TO BE
THE ORGANIC CONCERNS OF A
SUBSTANTIAL PORTION
OF RESIDENTS WHO ARE
UNAFFILIATED WITH EITHER SIDE
COMMITTED TO THIS DEBATE
ALREADY IS OUR JOB TO BALANCE
AND TO LEAD TO BALANCED
COMMUNITY CROSSCURRENTS AND TO
LEAD NOT THAT LEADERSHIP.
IT SHOULD BE NEITHER TIMID NOR
HEEDLESS OF YOU.
MY TASK IS LOOKING TO BRING THE
COMMUNITY TO SOMETHING LIKE A
PLACE OF THE OF ACCEPTABLE
COLLECTIVE DISCOMFORT.
THE CLUB IS NOT AN END STATE
AND PUSHING THROUGH AN
UNIMPLEMENTABLE PLAN
ACCOMPLISHES NOTHING.
THE PLAN IS A VISION DOCUMENT
THAT REQUIRES YEARS OF FOLLOW
THROUGH TO BE SUCCESSFUL TO
ACCOMPLISH ITS GOAL OF EQUITY,
SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY FOR MY PART I
BELIEVE THAT THE DRAFT PLAN
ENVISIONED BY THE RESOLUTION
WILL PROVIDE FOR INCREASED
MULTIFAMILY SUPPLY AND AGAIN
DECISIVELY WITHOUT EXCEPTION
THROUGHOUT THE COMMUNITY AND
WILL DO SO IN A WAY THAT BETTER
REFLECTS THE AGGREGATE
ACCEPTABLE DISCOMFORT AND THUS
CRUCIALLY BE BETTER IMPLEMENTED
IN THE LONG TERM.
THIS JUDGMENT MAY BE RIGHT.
IT MAY BE WRONG.
REASONABLE MINDS EVEN THOSE
GENERALLY ALLIED CAN REASONABLY
DISAGREE AND FOR MY PART I'M
ALWAYS GRATEFUL FOR THE
CONVERSATION.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER DENHA THANK YOU MAYOR
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT SOME
COLLEAGUES HAVE EXPRESSED
DISAGREEMENT WITH THE
RESOLUTION TONIGHT AND THERE
ARE SEVERAL THAT WE ARE ALSO
SHORT SEVERAL COLLEAGUES AND OR
THERE MAY BE A DESIRE TO VOTE
DIFFERENTLY ON THE POLICY
DIRECTION AND THE CONTRACTUAL
AMENDMENT REQUIRED TO COMPLETE
THE PLAN.
I WOULD MOVE TO DIVIDE THE
QUESTION TO CONSIDER SEPARATELY
THE POLICY OF THE RESOLUTION
FROM THE FINAL RESOLVED CLAUSE
WHICH STIPULATES THE
CONTRACTUAL TERMS.
DOES THAT REQUIRE A SECOND
SECOND BY FIRED DISCUSSION ALL
IN FAVOR FOR THE DIVISION
POSED?
THE QUESTION IS DIVIDED.
LET US IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
ON THE POLICY QUESTION ANY
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
POLICY QUESTION ALL IN FAVOR
OF THE POLICY QUESTION
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE STARTING
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER CORNHILL.
YES THERE'S THERE SEVEN
UNDERSTAND WHAT WE'RE DOING
HERE.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL.
NO BECAUSE WE'RE DISH YES.
COUNCILOR HARRISON ABSENT
ELSMERE WATSON YES.
COUNCILOR AMALEK ABSENT ELSMERE
DENHA YES.
COUNCILOR 01 NO.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
CUSTOMER IRE YES.
COUNCILOR AKMAN YES.
THAT'S OUR BRIGG'S ABSENT
MOTION CARRIES FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE CONTRACT
AMENDMENT QUESTION
I'VE GOT
COUNCILOR RADISH THEN GATESHEAD
ONE.
I'M JUST I'M JUST WONDERING
WERE WE GOING TO POST POUN THE
THE FINANCIAL QUESTION THE
CONTRACT WE CERTAINLY CAN NO
I'M SORRY YOU WISH OR MAYBE NOT
MAYBE NOT.
I THINK THE MOTION ON THE TABLE
IS THE CONTRACTUAL QUESTION YOU
CAN CERTAINLY MOVE TO POSTPONE
IT BUT IT HASN'T BEEN MOVED
YET.
>> COUNCILOR DESH IF I STILL
HAVE THE FLOOR YOU DO I WOULD
LIKE TO MOVE TO POSTPONE THE
CONTRACTUAL FINANCING QUESTION
TO THE NEXT MEETING TO THE NEXT
MEETING SECONDED SECONDED BY
COUNCIL OR DENHA FURTHER
DISCUSSION POSTPONEMENT OR
FAVOR OF THE POSTPONEMENT POSED
LIKE A CALL.
ALL RIGHT.
IT IS POSTPONED.
WE DO HAVE A MASCORD WE HAVE
THE PLEASURE OF CLOSED SESSION
TODAY.
NO THANK YOU MA'AM.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITION AND REFERRALS MOVE A
MOTION IS TO APPROVE THE
SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCILOR THIS
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POST THE
CLERK'S REPORT IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY.
NO THANK YOU, MA'AM.
WE HAVE PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW
PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL IN
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT OVERFLOW TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS INSTANCES PER
PRIOR.
WE'LL HAVE TWO MINUTES IN WHICH
TO SPEAK.
>> SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME CLOCK.
OUR CLERK OR THE TIME CLERK
WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS.
OUR REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR
TIME'S EXPIRED PLEASE INCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR.
OUR FIRST PUBLIC SPEAKER
OVERFLOW TODAY IS JULIE STEINER
.
JULIE STEINER
OUR NEXT PUBLIC SPEAKER IS DEB
STERN
.
YOU'RE DOING THIS.
YOU'RE REALLY FAST AND YOU'RE
ALL GOOD SO BUT YOU ALREADY
VOTED ON WHAT I'M TALKING
ABOUT.
WE DID SO YOU JUST TOLD ME TO
TALK SO YOU WILL OK, HERE I AM.
MY NAME IS DEMPSTER AND I LIVE
IN WARD THREE.
I MOVED HERE IN 1984 AND HAVE
LIVED AND LIVED IN THREE HOUSES
I RENTED AND FOUR HOUSES I
OWNED IN SEVEN DIFFERENT AREAS
OF TOWN.
I'VE GOTTEN AROUND I KNOW THAT
YOU ARE HEARING FROM MANY
PEOPLE ACROSS THE SPECTRUM AND
I CAN IMAGINE HOW DIFFICULT IT
IS TO STRIKE A BALANCE BETWEEN
THE CONCERNS OF CURRENT
RESIDENTS AND THE NEED TO BE
GOOD STEWARDS FOR THOSE IN THE
FUTURE.
SO EVEN IF DON'T ALWAYS AGREE
WITH COUNCIL, I TRULY THANK YOU
AND I APPRECIATE YOUR SERVICE
AND I APPRECIATE YOU LISTENING
ESPECIALLY IN THE INDIVIDUAL
MEETINGS THAT YOU ALL HAVE
OPENED YOURSELVES TO.
THERE'S NO WAY I COULD DO WHAT
YOU GUYS ARE DOING.
I ALSO RECOGNIZE THE NEED FOR
MORE RESIDENTS AND MORE HOUSING
OPTIONS WE ARE GROWING SO HOW
COULD THIS NOT BE THE CASE?
BUT I BELIEVE THAT THOSE
INCREASED OPTIONS SHOULD OCCUR
EVERYWHERE EQUITABLY IN ALL
NEIGHBORHOODS MY OWN INCLUDED
THIS IS A BIG PLACE THAT IS
MISSING FROM THIS DISCUSSION.
THE PLAN STATED THE EQUITABLE
IMPLEMENTATION WITHOUT ALSO
INCLUDING EQUITABLE IMPACT
IGNORES THE MARKET FORCES THAT
ARE ALREADY BEING FELT IN THE
NEIGHBORHOODS NEAREST TO CAMPUS
.
THE PLAN SHOWS THAT
REDEVELOPMENT IS FOLLOWING THAT
SAME TRAJECTORY AS THE ORIGINAL
GROWTH PATTERN.
THE NEAR CAMPUS NEIGHBORHOOD
HAVE BEEN AND CONTINUE TO BE
DEVELOPED FIRST EVEN WITHOUT
ANY ZONING CHANGES THEY ARE
ALREADY EXPERIENCING AN
INEQUITABLE IMPACT FOR
DENSIFICATION THAT'S NOT SEEN
IN OTHER NEIGHBORHOODS.
AND IF MARKET PRESSURES ARE NOT
COUNTERBALANCED BY THIS PLAN AS
PROPOSED IN THIS RESOLUTION,
THERE'S HANDBOOK AND WILL
CONTINUE AND WORSEN.
AND LISA, THANK YOU FOR YOUR
COMMENT ABOUT WHAT'S HAPPENING
WHEN DEVELOPERS ARE ABLE TO
PURCHASE PROPERTIES CLOSE TO
CAMPUS.
>> DOES THAT MEAN I DON'T HAVE
THIRTY SECONDS?
I'M AFRAID YOUR TIME IS DONE.
>> THANK YOU FOR THIS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEC DOS,
COUNSEL.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK IN FRONT OF YOU TODAY.
AND ALTHOUGH I DO NOT AGREE
WITH YOUR DECISION, I WANT TO
THANK YOU FOR YOUR THOUGHTFUL
COMMENTS ON WHY YOU MADE YOUR
DECISION.
I I HOPE THAT AS YOU MOVE
FORWARD WITH THIS PROCESS THAT
YOU WILL CONTINUE TO LOOK TO
SERIOUSLY EXPAND THE
AVAILABILITY AND THE ABILITY TO
BUILD NEW HOUSING IN ALL
NEIGHBORHOODS OF OUR CITY.
I WAS BORN AND RAISED HERE AND
I WISH TO ANN ARBOR MY HOME FAR
INTO THE FUTURE IN MY WORK
SINCE GROWING UP HERE I HAVE
BEEN IN OTHER CITIES AROUND THE
MIDWEST THAT HAVE INCREASED THE
AMOUNT AND AVAILABILITY
OF HOUSING OFTENTIMES IN ON AND
NEAR COLLEGE CAMPUSES AND
COLLEGE TOWNS THERE INCREASED
AVAILABILITY OF HOUSING HAS
MADE HOUSING IN THOSE CITIES
MORE AFFORDABLE THAN I HAVE
OBSERVED HERE IN ANN ARBOR AND
I HOPE THAT AS YOU CONTINUE
THIS PROCESS THAT YOU WILL LOOK
TO TO SERIOUSLY INCREASE AND
WITHOUT AND I WISH YOU WOULD
HAVE NOT LIMITED THE NUMBER
OF UNITS IN HOUSING PER PARCEL
AND SIMPLY ALLOWED AS MUCH AS
MUCH HOUSING AS IS SAFE AND THE
MARKET WILL BEAR WITHIN THE
DEVELOPABLE ENVELOPE OF ANY
PARCEL HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
AND AS WE MOVE FORWARD I HOPE
YOU WILL CONTINUE TO LOOK TO
THAT GOAL OF INCREASING OUR
HOUSING.
I WILL NOTE THAT HOUSING CHANGE
TAKES TIME AND THE FIVE YEAR
HORIZON THAT YOU IDENTIFIED WE
WILL UNLIKELY TO SEE MUCH
PROCESS BECAUSE BUILDING TAKES
TIME.
THERE ARE NOT MANY VACANT LOTS
IN OUR CITY AND HOUSES ARE NOT
TORN DOWN LIGHTLY.
PEOPLE CHOOSE TO STAY THERE AND
BY LIMITING THE NUMBER OF UNITS
THAT MAY BE BUILT ON EXISTING
LAWS, I FEAR THAT WE HAVE
FURTHER LENGTHENED THE TIME
THAT WE MAY REDUCE THE
AFFORDABILITY FOR AN HOUR BUT
FOR PEOPLE LIKE ME WHO HOPE TO
KEEP CALLING IN OUR HOME THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER WAS IN
SHANKSVILLE, PA
WHILE I LIVE AT
FOUR TO THREE WEST LIBERTY
STREET ON THE WEST SIDE.
I'M DISAPPOINTED IN THE OUTCOME
TODAY INEQUITABLE AND IT
FOLLOWS A PREDICTABLE PATTERN
OF SUPPOSEDLY PROGRESSIVE
CITIES KNEECAPPING HOUSING
CONSTRUCTION OF THE SORT IT
MIGHT OTHERWISE ADDRESS THEIR
HOUSING CRISES IN MY OWN
NEIGHBORHOOD ADJACENT TO MY
HOME ACTUALLY IS AN EIGHT UNIT
APARTMENT BUILDING BUILT IN
1962 DOWN THROUGH THREE JUST
ANOTHER BLOCK OR TWO AGAIN ON
THE WEST SIDE THERE ARE
MULTIPLE SMALL APARTMENT
BUILDINGS OFTEN ALMOST ALL
OF THEM I THINK ARE BUILT IN
THE 60S AT LEAST WHEN I WAS
CLICKING AROUND THE PERSONAL
MAP TODAY AND JUST BECAUSE THEY
USED TO BE ILLEGAL THEY USED TO
BE LEGAL AND THEY BECAME
ILLEGAL AND YOU CAN'T BUILD
THESE SORTS OF THINGS TODAY.
THESE SORTS OF HOMES ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MORE
NEIGHBORS TO LIVE IN A
WONDERFUL NEIGHBORHOOD.
THEY CAN BE WALKING DISTANCE TO
DOWNTOWN TO THEIR WORK, TO
PARKS AND SCHOOLS.
THE NEIGHBORS THAT ARE LIVING
IN THESE APARTMENTS, THEY DO
NOT HAVE TO BUY A DETACHED
MULTIPLEX HOMES AS ANOTHER
HOUSING ADVOCATE HERE SAID,
BECAUSE THESE SORTS
OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS EXIST IN
THE NEIGHBORHOODS THEY MIGHT
WANT TO LIVE IN.
FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO VOTED
AGAINST DC THREE, THANK YOU.
BUT I THINK THAT THESE SORT
OF SMALL SCALE MULTIUNIT
BUILDINGS SHOULD BE PERMITTED
THROUGHOUT THE CITY WITHOUT
LIMITATIONS ON THE
NEIGHBORHOOD, WITHOUT
LIMITATIONS ON THE NUMBER
OF UNITS OR THE NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT WHETHER STUDENTS HAPPEN
TO BE NEARBY ETC. I THINK THAT
WE DON'T WANT FURTHER
RESOLUTIONS, FURTHER
KNEECAPPING, HOUSING, FURTHER
KNEECAPPING THE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, I'M
DISAPPOINTED IN THIS OUTCOME.
I WE DON'T LOSE ANY MORE
PROGRESS ON THIS ISSUE AND
TOWARDS ADDRESSING OUR HOUSING
SUPPLY CRISIS AND THAT LETS US
WORK TOWARDS ADDRESSING AND
PERMITTING MISSING MIDDLE
HOUSING ALL ACROSS THIS TOWN
THAT WE ALL THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC
SHALAKO
.
GOOD EVENING, COUNCIL.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I AM
EXTREMELY DISAPPOINTED IN THE
FACT THAT RESOLUTION DC THREE
WAS PROPOSED AND EVEN MORE
POINT THAT HAS SINCE PASSED
BECAUSE I THINK ULTIMATELY
DESPITE THE GOOD INTENTIONS
OF TRYING TO MAKE SURE THAT ANY
SORT OF PLAN PASSES, IT
ULTIMATELY CATERS TO AN ARBOR'S
WEALTHIEST AND MOST PRIVILEGED
RESIDENTS AND PUT THE CEILING
IN CONTEXT OF A BIT OF A SHORT
STORY TO STEER.
>> WHEN I WAS LUCKY ENOUGH TO
BUY A HOME IN ANN ARBOR,
EVERYONE I TOLD ASKED WHY IN
DISBELIEF THEY SAID NO IT IS
JUST TOO EXPENSIVE OR ABBOTT
ISN'T AS COOL AS IT USED TO BE.
>> I DIDN'T GET IT AT FIRST I
SAW A TOWN THAT OFFERED
EXCEPTIONAL TRANSIT AND
WALKABILITY AMAZING THINGS TO
DO ANY DAY THAT WE CAN A
PROGRESSIVE CULTURE THAT
ALIGNED WITH MY VALUES AND WHAT
ON TO BE TRUE.
I FIND OUT PRETTY QUICKLY WHY
PEOPLE DON'T LIKE OUR TURNS OUT
THERE'S A SMALL BUT VOCAL AND
WELL-CONNECTED GROUP OF NEWBIES
THAT WANT THE CITY TO BE
PAUSED.
THERE'S A GROUP THERE A GROUP
THAT LOVES FITTING NEW HOUSING
HARMONIOUSLY THE NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT.
BUT WHAT THEY MEAN IS NO MORE
PEOPLE OR STUDENTS WHO I CAN
SEE THEM.
SO WHEN FOLKS OUT OF THEIR
BROWSER MY CHOICE TO MOVE HERE
I CAN UNDERSTAND WHERE THEY
WERE COMING FROM IN SPITE
OF ALL THAT I FOUND SO MUCH TO
LOVE HERE AND ARBOR'S MY HOME
AND I WANT MORE REASONS TO KEEP
IT THAT WAY.
>> IT'S GREAT BECAUSE ALL LIKE
ALL GREAT CITIES IT WAS BUILT
FOR AND BY FOLKS FROM ALL WALKS
OF LIFE ESPECIALLY PEOPLE
OF COLOR AT THE LGBT, LGBTQ
PLUS COMMUNITY IMMIGRANTS THE
WORKING CLASS WHEN WE CATER TO
THE WEALTHIEST WE WANT TO BE
THE CITY THAT IS BOTH
CULTURALLY AND FINANCIALLY
BANKRUPT AND MOST IRONICALLY
THE CROWD BY MAKING IT
INCREDIBLY EXPENSIVE TO BUILD
IN THERE ENCOURAGING
DEVELOPMENT SWARM NEMESIS
LUXURY STUDENT APARTMENTS I
JUST WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT THE
DECISIONS THAT ARE MADE TONIGHT
HAVE BEEN NOTED AND I WANT YOU
TO THINK ABOUT THIS AS TWENTY
TWENTY SIX AND TWENTY TWENTY
EIGHT ARE COMING UP AND YOUR
TERMS ARE COMING TO THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STALBERG
THE NEVER ENDING IN
FIVE THREE FOUR STOLLBERG GO
AHEAD AMING AGAIN.
THIS IS TOM STALBERG GIVEN THAT
THE ITEMS ALREADY BEEN VOTED ON
HIM A CHANGE WAS GOING TO SAY I
WANT TO APPLAUD A LOT OF THE
PEOPLE WHO SPOKE UP TONIGHT
WITH A LOT OF PASSION, A LOT
OF PERSONAL STORIES,
PARTICULARLY THE ONES THAT
DIDN'T ATTACK OTHER PEOPLE AND
MAKE ACCUSATIONS OF OTHER
PEOPLE AND OTHER PEOPLE IN THE
GROUPS.
BUT THERE ARE A LOT OF VOICES
THERE THAT WERE GENUINE,
PASSIONATE AND NOT OFFENSIVE.
I LIVE IN A DUPLEX BUILDING.
I LIKE IT AT FIRST HOUSE I
BOUGHT HERE WHEN I CAME BACK
AND I WAS A TRIPLEX.
WE STILL OWN THAT AS A RENTAL
I'VE HELPED OTHER PEOPLE OBTAIN
HOMEOWNERSHIP THROUGH DUPLEXES
OWNER-OCCUPIED DUPLEXES SO I'M
A TRUE BELIEVER AND I LIVE IN
DENSITY BUT TO THE PEOPLE OUT
THERE WHO THINK THAT THIS PLAN
IS GOING TO PROVIDE THE KIND
OF GENERAL DENSITY THAT THEY
CAN ACTUALLY OR I'M SORRY YOU
COULDN'T WRITE THIS PLAN WILL
NOT PROVIDE THE TYPE OF HOUSING
THAT YOU'D LIKE AT A LEVEL
AFFORDABLE TO YOU.
YOU'VE BEEN DUPED.
THIS PLAN WILL NOT ACHIEVE THE
AFFORDABILITY, SUSTAINABILITY
AND EQUITY GOAL THAT EVERYBODY
MAKES ALL THESE SPEECHES ABOUT.
>> WE DO NEED TO CHANGE THIS
PLAN.
WE ARE GOING TO HAVE A NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
IT NEEDS TO BE ONE THAT'S
EFFECTIVE.
IT NEEDS TO BE ONE THAT WORKS
FOR YOU.
I'M SORRY SON.
YOU DON'T LIKE TO HEAR THAT
YOU'VE BEEN DUPED.
I GET THAT.
BUT THAT'S THE TRUTH.
WE NEED TO MAKE CHANGES IN THIS
PLAN TO MAKE DIRECT POLLUTION
NOT INDIRECT TRICKLE DOWN PIPE
AND SUPPLY SIDE SOLUTIONS.
OTHERWISE THIS PLAN ISN'T GOING
TO DO ANYTHING FOR YOU.
>> I'M SORRY I HAVE A GOOD
NIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SHANNON.
HELLO.
HELLO, I'M SHANNON.
I'M PRETTY DISAPPOINTED IN THE
OUTCOME OF THE RESOLUTION AND
THAT'S BECAUSE I CARE MORE
ABOUT WELCOMING PEOPLE INTO MY
NEIGHBORHOOD AND EMPOWERING
THEM AND THEIR LIVELIHOODS THAN
DICTATING AND POLICING HOW
THEIR HOMES LOOK.
I I'M HAPPY THAT THERE ARE
THINGS IN THE RESOLUTION THAT
HELP EXPEDITE MULTI-FAMILY
HOMES AND THEIR DEVELOPMENT.
I'M HAPPY THAT WE WILL REASSESS
IN COMING YEARS AND THAT IS
LARGE PART DUE TO THE
RECOGNITION RECOMMENDATIONS
MADE BY PEOPLE HERE.
BUT I AM MOST FRUSTRATED WITH
THE SUGGESTION OF USING UNIT
BASED LIMITS TO BASICALLY
RESTRICT HOW WE CAN DEVELOP AND
RESTRICT WHO GETS TO LIVE NEAR
US.
IT MEANS IF YOU'RE A MAN
OF DUPLEX OR TRIPLEX YOU'RE
GOOD TO GO BUT IF YOU'RE
COMPLEX AND THE EXACT SAME
YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED OR BY THE
RESOLUTION YOU'RE REQUIRED SOME
ARBITRARY BURDEN OF PROOF THAT
YOU FIT THE CONTEXT.
IT MEANS THAT IF THERE'S A
SINGLE FAMILY MANSION DOWN THE
STREET BUT A SMALLER MULTIPLEX
NEARBY IT CAN'T EXIST.
>> IT MEANS THAT IF I HAVE THE
PRIVILEGE OF HAVING A SINGLE
FAMILY HOUSE AND WANTING TO
CONVERT IT TO A COMPLEX WITHOUT
EVEN TOUCHING THE EXTERIOR, I
CAN'T DO THAT.
SO THAT'S WHY I DID NOT LIKE
THE LANGUAGE OF LIMITING BY
UNITS OR BEDROOMS AND IT WOULD
HAVE THE BIGGEST WIND WIN ONLY
BY FOR LIKE HEIGHT LIMITS AND I
WOULD HAVE ADDRESSED IT
OVERSHADOWING OF LARGER HOMES
AND SMALLER HOMES WHILE ALSO
ALLOWING FOR RESIDENTIAL INFILL
.
I THINK ALTOGETHER WE HAVE THE
OBLIGATION TO SUPPORT THOSE WHO
CURRENTLY LIVE HERE WANT TO
CONTINUE LIVING HERE AND ALSO
INCLUDING THOSE WHO WANT TO
MOVE IN LIKE MYSELF.
>> LET'S CONTINUE TO LIVE OUT
OUR VALUES OF SUSTAINABILITY,
AFFORDABILITY AND INCLUSION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX
EXCLUSION SOON.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
OH THIS IS EXCELLENT.
FIRST OF ALL I THINK THANK SOME
MEMBERS AT CORNELL FOR THEIR
OPPOSITION TO THIS RESOLUTION
AND FOR STICKING TO THEIR
VALUES TO THE REST OF YOU.
WHAT IN THE WORLD ARE YOU DOING
MAKING ME CALL IN WHILE I'M
SICK?
MY BUT THIS DOESN'T SET A
BASELINE.
IT SETS A CAP.
YOU WOULD HAVE DOZENS OF PEOPLE
WHO WOULD BE MAD AT YOU RIGHT
NOW IF IT WAS SETTING A
BASELINE NOT A CAP COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH ARE MAKING CLAIMS
LITERALLY CONTRARY TO THE PLAIN
LANGUAGE OF THE RESOLUTION AND
TO THE COMBINATION OF THIS AND
COUNCIL'S PREVIOUS MEDDLING IS
TO INSULT OUR INTELLIGENCE.
THIS YOUR FIRST RESOLUTION
ALREADY BETRAYED THE PRINCIPLES
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
THIS RESOLUTION DOES THINGS YOU
PRIME DURING THE DISCUSSION
OF THE FIRST RESOLUTION AT
COUNCIL WOULD NEVER DO SO NOW
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO READING
YOUR WORDS BACK TO YOU TONIGHT.
YOUR WORDS FROM TONIGHT BACK TO
YOU IN THREE MONTHS WHEN YOU
INTRODUCE A RESOLUTION THAT
MESSES WITH SETBACKS AND MAKES
US UNFEASIBLE, CAN I TELL YOU
THAT YOU ARE RIGHT THAT PUSHING
THROUGH AN UNIMPLEMENTABLE AND
ACCOMPLISHES NOTHING?
WHY ARE YOU MAKING IT HARDER TO
IMPLEMENT AND SO YOUR MEDDLING
AND MICROMANAGING IS HARMING US
COMPREHENSIVE WHICH IS NOT
ENSURING THAT HIGH DEMAND
NEIGHBORHOODS GET THE SAME
AMOUNT OF INFILL OR
REDEVELOPMENT AS OUTLYING
NEIGHBORHOODS.
EQUITY IS ALLOWING PEOPLE TO
LIVE NEAR WHERE THEY NEED TO GO
DAY TO DAY.
WE NEED TO BUILD MORE AND YOU
ARE HINDERING THAT AS BARACK
OBAMA KEEPS TELLING DEMOCRATS I
DON'T WANT, YOU KNOW, YOUR
IDEOLOGY BECAUSE YOU CAN'T
BUILD ANYTHING IT DOES NOT
MATTER.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD
.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M NOT WEARING PURPLE TONIGHT
BECAUSE WE HAVE A CRISIS IN
THIS COUNTRY AND IT'S TIME THAT
ANN ARBOR SHOWED SOME
LEADERSHIP PEOPLE CAN FILL IN
THE BLANK ON HOW TO DO THAT.
SOME PEOPLE TOLD ME THE REASON
WE HAVE AN AMENDMENT IS BECAUSE
COUNCIL WANTS TO COMPROMISE
JUST ENOUGH SO THEY CAN GET
REELECTED.
I HOPE THAT'S NOT THE REASON
BUT WE NEED TO START WORKING
TOGETHER BECAUSE WHAT I SAW
TONIGHT WAS AN EVEN MORE
DIVIDED COMMUNITY AND IT'S
EXTREMELY TROUBLING.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT TWO OTHER
THINGS.
ONE IS THE TWO WAY CYCLE TRACK.
I ASK FOR A SECOND OPINION FROM
A LICENSED PROFESSIONAL
SOMETHING THAT WE ALL DO IN THE
MEDICAL FIELD.
I SIMPLY ASK FOR THAT REGARDING
TRANSPORTATION AND WHAT I GOT
WAS MISINFORMATION AND I HATE
TO SAY BUT LIES THE WASHTENAW
ARE WELL ANYWAY NOW THEY'RE
CALLED WALK BIKE WASHTENAW.
THEY HAVE A STATEMENT THEY DO
NOT SUPPORT THE TWO WAY CYCLE
TRACK.
NO ONE THAT I'VE TALKED TO
SUPPORTS THE TWO WAY CYCLE
TRACK.
THERE IS AN ACTIVE
INVESTIGATION BY LAURA THE
LICENSING ORGANIZATION.
I REGRET THAT I HAVE TO TAKE
THAT STAND BUT PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO DIE AND IT'S TIME THAT WE
WORK TOGETHER AND FOLLOWED FACT
NOT IDEOLOGY.
THIRD, THE POSITIVE NEWS IS
WE'VE GOT A PROBLEM WITH THE
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY.
WE'VE HIRED JORDAN ROBERTS FROM
DEARBORN.
DEARBORN HAS AN EXCELLENT
ORDINANCE
REGARDING RIGHT AWAY
SIGHTLINES AND SO I'M WORKING
ON SOMETHING BASED ON THE
DEARBORN ORDINANCE THAT I'LL
TURN OVER TO THE CITY.
HOPEFULLY THEY'LL IMPLEMENT IT.
THANK THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS IVAN
LEIBOVITCH.
IVAN LIBATIQUE.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
WEEDER.
THOMAS WEEDER
.
WE'RE GOING TO SWITCH GEARS
HERE TO A MUCH SMALLER SUBJECT
PROPOSALS AND B, UNFORTUNATELY
IS A CONTINUING PATTERN HERE
OF MISLEADING THE PUBLIC ABOUT
THE EFFORT TO PUT A PARK OR THE
LIBRARY LIKE THIS STARTED SEVEN
YEARS AGO WHEN YOU AND BY THE
WAY, I SHOULD MENTION THERE'S A
OPEN LETTER WHERE I'M
REPRESENTING THOSE
ORGANIZATIONS.
WE'VE SENT A LETTER YOU BALL
SHOULD HAVE MAYBE GOT IT IN
YOUR EMAIL THIS EVENING BECAUSE
JUSTICE WAS COMPLETED THIS
START IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN WHEN
MR. MAYOR, YOU SPEARHEADED THE
EFFORT TO KILL THE PROPOSAL TO
PUT A PARK ON THE LIBRARY LOT
BY WHAT THE MICHIGAN COURT
OF APPEALS RULED WAS AN ILLEGAL
CAPTION A BIASED CAPTION THAT
VIOLATED STATE ELECTION LAW AND
YOU HAVEN'T STOPPED WITH THAT
GOAL SINCE.
THERE'S BEEN THIS MYTH SINCE
THEN THAT THE PROPONENTS OF THE
PARK PROMISE TO PAY FOR IT
EXCEPT THAT NOBODY CAN COME UP
WITH WHAT WAS SAID WHEN, WHERE
AND BY WHOM BECAUSE IT DIDN'T
HAPPEN BECAUSE NO ONE CAN
IDENTIFY IT.
BUT IT'S THIS WE ALL ARE HERE
HERE THIS ALL THE TIME WE CAN
LISTEN YOU FOLKS YOU SAID YOU
WERE GOING TO PAY FOR IT.
IT'S NOW BEEN ADMITTED BY YOU
FOLKS THAT A LOT OF THAT
LANGUAGE ON THE PROPOSAL IN THE
PROPOSAL WILL BALLOT LANGUAGE
IS NOT LEGALLY BINDING.
YOU HELD THAT POSITION FOR A
WHILE UNTIL LAST WEEK AND THEN
YOU STOPPED AND NOW YOU'VE MADE
UP SOME OTHER PHRASES LEGALLY
COMPELLING AND NOT THE INTENT
OF THE INTENT OF COUNCIL IS OK,
WELL I DON'T HAVE MUCH TIME
LEFT BUT YOU WILL HAVE A LOT
OF THERE ARE A LOT OF OTHER
THINGS IN THAT LETTER THAT WE
SENT TO YOU AND JUST BRIEFLY
SAY BRIEFLY, MR. MAYOR, YOU SAY
YOU CAN'T BUILD A PARKING
STRUCTURE.
I CAN'T BUILD A PARKING ON TOP
OF A PARKING STRUCTURE.
WELL, YOU HAVE NO VISION
BECAUSE ALL AROUND THIS COUNTRY
PARKS HAVE BEEN PUT ON FAR MORE
DIFFICULT PLACES THAN A PARKING
STRUCTURE.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRY
HERSKOVITS
.
HENRY HERSKOVITS, OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS DAVID MELTEM
DAVID
MALCOLM
, OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
KITTIE CON
CON PHONE NUMBER
THREE FOUR FIVE FOUR STAR SIX.
>> GO AHEAD.
>> HI, THIS IS KIDNEY CANCER
WARD.
I'M CALLING IN TO CLEAR UP SOME
MISINFORMATION WHICH IS BEING
SPREAD BY MY COUNCIL
REPRESENTATIVE.
>> SHE HAS BEEN SAYING THAT THE
BALLOT LANGUAGE FOR PROPOSAL A
IS LEGALLY BINDING.
SHE SAID IT AT THE LEAGUE
OF WOMEN VOTERS PANEL.
SHE EVEN INSISTED ON NEXT DOOR
THAT SHE CONSULTED WITH THE
CITY ATTORNEY ABOUT IT.
>> UNFORTUNATELY WHAT COUNCIL
MEMBER FRAGS HAS BEEN CLAIMING
IS NOT TRUE BUT CHARTER
LANGUAGE IS THE ONLY LANGUAGE
THAT IS LAW THAT IS A FARCE.
I GOING TO READ THAT LANGUAGE
NOW THE CITY IS AUTHORIZED TO
SELL ANY OF ITS INTERESTS IN
319 S FIFTH AVENUE OR THREE
TWENTY SIX.
SO DIVISION STREET ONLY TO THE
ANNENBERG DISTRICT LIBRARY BY
REVOLUTION CONCURRED IN BY AT
LEAST EIGHT MEMBERS OF THE
COUNCIL THAT YES THAT'S THE
ONLY LANGUAGE THAT WILL BE
ENFORCEABLE SHOULD PROPOSAL
PASS NONE OF THE PROMISES ABOUT
WHAT THE LIBRARY WOULD DO OR
GUARANTEES NONE OF IT.
>> IT'S A SHAME COUNCIL MEMBER
BREAKS IN HERE TONIGHT TO
CORRECT THIS INFORMATION.
PERHAPS MAYOR TAYLOR COULD
CORRECT MAYOR TAYLOR.
YOU SPONSORED THAT BALLOT
LANGUAGE.
LOOK AT MAILER.
MAYOR TAYLOR, LOOK UP.
DID YOU WRITE YOU'RE AN
ATTORNEY.
YOU MUST KNOW THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN BALLOT LANGUAGE AND
CHARTER LANGUAGE.
PLEASE CLEAR THIS UP ONCE AND
FOR ALL.
NOW I ALSO WANT TO TELL PEOPLE
IF YOU'VE ALREADY VOTED AND
WANT TO CHANGE OR VOTE YOU CAN
DO THAT BEFORE JULY TWENTY
THIRD JUST GO TO THE CITY
CLERK'S OFFICE AND THEY WILL
DESTROY YOUR BALLOT TIME AND
GIVE YOU A NEW ONE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ARE THEIR COMMUNITY
AND A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE BY
THEIR CORNELL DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR OPPOSE.
WE'RE ADJOURNED